Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/academics/offices/office-proctor
Page Title: Office of The Proctor | BRAC University

Office of The Proctor | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
● Ensure all members of the University comply with existing University policies, statutes, and code of conduct through governance and administration,
● Investigate violation and breach of University policies and code of conduct both academic and non-academic,
● Ensure administration of the disciplinary management process,
● Address all grievances and complaints,
● Oversee disciplinary issues with regards to examinations and academic activities,
● Serve on a number of University bodies and committees,
● Oversee registration of student bodies and clubs.
The Proctor has general responsibility for students and staff safety and may work with the law enforcement authorities and other partners to ensure that our students and employees are safe and feel safe.
Our Current Activities:
We ensure all disciplinary actions are dealt with relevant and genuine evidence. Our area of duty includes both Academic and Non-academic matters. Upon obtaining, valid complaints will be processed through our designated departments for further investigation. We make sure every case is processed with integrity and in alignment with the University policies and guidelines.
Key Responsibilities and Specific Areas:
Academic Matters:
Academic Conduct
– Assures that each and every student is indemnified in an area free of academic dishonesty and plagiarism. Protect students from any sort of academic discrimination targeted towards them.
Student Complaints (Academic)
– To give appropriate advice and support to the students and faculties wishing to make complaints about cheating, plagiarism, and misdemeanor.
Non-Academic Matters:
Student & Staff Conduct
- Ensures that all students and staff can go about their activities and lives within the University environment without being subjected to inappropriate behavior by other students and members.
Student & Staff Complaints (Non-Academic)
– Safeguards the students and staff regarding bullying, sexual harassment, ragging, threat, bribing, and serious criminal offenses.
Contact Us
For any queries:
proctor@bracu.ac.bd
For Complaints: please use the complaint form only for lodging complaints.
News and Events