Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/about/people/rahma-akhter
Page Title: Rahma Akhter | BRAC University

Rahma Akhter | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Rahma Akhter
Senior Lecturer (on leave)
BRAC Business School
rahma.akhter@bracu.ac.bd
is a Lecturer at the Business School of BRAC University. Before joining here, Rahma was a Full-time Lecturer of Marketing at School of Business, University of Information Technology and Sciences (UITS) for four years. She also worked as an International Invigilator of GCE (O-level & A-level), ACCA, LLB (Under University of London) on behalf of British Council Bangladesh. She believes in considering the students’ viewpoints to realize their potential, helping them to grow, helping them to find their talents, skills and abilities and communicate on their level.
Master of Business Administration (MBA),
Department of Marketing, Faculty of Business Studies, Dhaka University, Bangladesh.
Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA),
Akhter, R.
(2017). An empirical study on Bandarban, Bangladesh: Integrating destination branding and supply chain management opportunities.
International Journal of Supply Chain Management
(4), 191–198. Retrieved from
https://ojs.excelingtech.co.uk/index.php/IJSCM/article/view/1668
of Marketing, BRAC Business School, BRAC University
of Marketing at School of Business, University of Information Technology and Sciences-UITS (2010-2014)
Consumer Behavior, Introduction to Business, Organizational Behavior, Business- Basic, Ethics and Environment.
International Conference on Business and Management (ICBM-2019).
• ICBM-19-0733 Transportation Supply Chain Performance: Bangladeshi Tourism Industry Viewpoint
International Conference on Business and Management (ICBM-2017).
A Case Study on the Product Development of a New Beauty Soap Brand of ACI Limited-
Place Placement Portraying Vital Role in Tourism of Bangladesh
International Conference on Contract Manufacturing for Pharmaceuticals & Biotech Companies organized by Global Strategy Exchange, Bangladesh (2010).
International Conference on Capital Adequacy and Risk Management (Basel II) organized by Global Strategy Exchange, Bangladesh (2009).
8th Annual Language and Development Conference, Organized by British Council, Bangladesh (2009).
Received a funded training program from Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation (ITEC), Ministry of External Affairs-Government of India, National Science and Technology Entrepreneurship Development Board (Department of Science and Technology)- Government of India. The program was concentrated on “Promoting Innovations & Entrepreneurship through Incubation” at Entrepreneurship Development Institute (EDII)-Ahmedabad. It was 6 weeks training programme starting from 11th December, 2017 to 19th January, 2018.
Member, Dhaka University Marketing Alumni Association.