Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/admissions/undergraduate
Page Title: Undergraduate | BRAC University

Undergraduate | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Admission Requirements
Minimum Qualifications (except Bachelor of Pharmacy)
Particulars
Required Minimum GPA
SSC/Equivalent and HSC/Equivalent (including additional subject)
3.5 in SSC and HSC separately
O-level with five subjects and A-level with two subjects as per the scale of A=5, B=4, C=3, D=2
2.5 in O-Level and A-Level separately
International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme (IB-DP)
Minimum DP Score of 24
Candidates applying for EEE, ECE, CSE, APE and Physics
HSC/ Equivalent
“B” grade in Physics & Mathematics
“C” grade in Physics & Mathematics
Candidates for BSc in Computer Science and BSc in Mathematics
“B” grade in Mathematics
“C” grade in Mathematics
Candidates who have completed any equivalent 12 years of schooling or High School Diploma (Grades 10–12), or William Carey Academy (Grades 10–12), or International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme(IB-DP), or Ontario Secondary School Diploma (Grades 10–12) from a reputed educational institution are also eligible to apply. Before applying, please contact the BRAC University Admissions Office at
admissions@bracu.ac.bd
for further guidance.
Candidates for BSc in Electronic & Communication Engineering and Electrical & Electronic Engineering who had Physics and Mathematics but not Chemistry in HSC/A-level/Equivalent will have to take a remedial course on Chemistry in addition to the courses required for the program.
Candidates for BSc in Biotechnology and Microbiology should have minimum C grade in Biology and Chemistry in HSC/A-level/Equivalent. Candidates who did not have Mathematics in HSC/A-level/Equivalent must take a remedial course on Mathematics in addition to the courses required for the program.
Candidates applying for BSc in EEE, ECE, CSE, APE, and Physics, who have completed IB-DP with a minimum DP Score of 24 [MAT-(HL/SL 5) & PHY-(HL/SL 5)] are eligible to apply.
Candidates applying for BSc in Biotechnology and Microbiology, who have completed IB-DP with a minimum DP Score of 24 [BIOLOGY-(HL/SL 5) & CHEMISTRY-(HL/SL 5)] are eligible to apply.
Candidates who have qualified in HSC/A levels or recognized equivalent examination in current year or two previous years are eligible to apply.
“E” grades will not be considered.
Bachelor of Pharmacy
Minimum Qualifications [Public/ Private University B. Pharm Program Accreditation and Student Admission Guideline]
Candidates must have a minimum aggregate GPA of 8.00 out of 10 (on a scale of 10), with no grade lower than 3.50 in SSC/O Level/Equivalent and HSC/A Level/Equivalent. In addition, they must achieve a minimum GPA of 3.50 in Chemistry and Biology in both examinations (on a scale of 5). They also need a minimum GPA of 3.00 in Mathematics and Physics in both examinations (on a scale of 5 in HSC or equivalent). For “O” Level and "A" Level candidates, they must have a B grade in Chemistry, Biology, and a minimum C grade in Mathematics and Physics.
Candidates not having Mathematics or failing or less than 3.0 in the subject at the HSC/”A” Level or recognized equivalent exam may be admitted, but they need to take an extra 3 (three) credits course on Mathematics relevant to the B.Pharm. Curriculum.
Applicants for admission to Pharm courses should complete the admission process within 03 (three) years from the year (AD) of publication of HSC/equivalent examination results.
Foreign students must have passed 12 education years and got the same grades in recognized equivalent examinations from foreign recognized institutions and must get an equivalence certificate from the Pharmacy Council before admission. Recognized equivalents mean Education Board, Madrasah Board and Bangladesh Technical Education Board, etc.
Candidates who have completed IB-DP with a minimum DP Score of 24 [BIO, CHE (HL/SL 5) and PHY-(HL/SL 4)] are eligible to apply (need equivalence certificate from the Pharmacy Council before admission).
Foundation and GED programs do not qualify for admission to undergraduate programs.
Candidates who completed schooling outside Bangladesh will have to submit equivalence certificates from the Pharmacy Council and verified/attested copies of previous academic documents from their Institute/Foreign Ministry (of the country that they studied in) Board of Intermediate, Secondary Education, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
Admission Test
All eligible candidates will have to sit for a written admission test on section/sections as shown in the table:
Test section
BSS in Anthropology, BA in English and LLB (Hons)
BBA and BSS in Economics
English and Mathematics
Bachelor of Pharmacy, BSc in Microbiology and BSc in Biotechnology
English, Mathematics and Biology & Chemistry
BSc in Computer Science, BSc in Computer Science and Engineering, BSc in Electronic and Communication Engineering, BSc in Electrical and Electronic Engineering, BSc in Physics, BSc in Applied Physics & Electronics, BSc in Mathematics
English, Mathematics,
Higher Mathematics and Physics
Bachelor of Architecture
English, Mathematics and Drawing
In order to qualify, candidates must pass each sub section separately.
Candidates who qualified in pre-university on the basis of written tests, will be called for an interview for final selection.
Visiting Student or Guest Student
Visiting or guest students are required to submit their applications along with the relevant transcripts and no objection letter (NOC) from her/his university subject to approval from chair, admissions committee. Visiting students are not required to appear in the admission test. A visiting student will be able to take a maximum of 2 courses in a semester and a maximum of 8 courses over time. This is to ensure that a visiting student does not take too many courses and apply for a degree at BRAC University.
Request for Information