Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/about/people/nitai-chandra-debnath-phd-fcma
Page Title: Nitai Chandra Debnath, PhD, FCMA | BRAC University

Nitai Chandra Debnath, PhD, FCMA | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Nitai Chandra Debnath, PhD, FCMA
Associate Professor
BRAC Business School
nitai.chandra@bracu.ac.bd
Level: 5, Room: 5A04
Kha-224 Merul Badda
Dhaka 1212. Bangladesh
Dr. Nitai Chandra Debnath, FCMA
joined Brac Business School as an Associate Professor with 18+ years of active teaching, research, and leadership experience in the academic and reputed national institutions. Dr. Debnath held prestigious positions of Director (Studies), and Executive President (Equivalent to CEO) at the only government mandated national institute for Capital Market Education, Research, and Training, the Bangladesh Institute of Capital Market (BICM), and several other teaching positions in leading private universities. During his tenure as the Executive President at the BICM, Dr. Debnath took a number of initiatives in reforming the institute to become a center of excellence for capital market education, the motto with which the institute was founded. Under his leadership, BICM secured the highest marks in the Annual Performance Agreement implementation among all the entities of the Financial Institutions Division, Ministry of Finance, Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh in the FY2018-19. As the Director (Studies) of BICM, Dr. Debnath lead a team of talented enthusiasts to coordinate the development of curriculum of the only Specialized Master’s in Bangladesh on Applied Finance and Capital Market, the MAFCM program, in affiliation with the University of Dhaka. As a faculty member of BICM, Dr. Debnath taught courses in Accounting and Finance, conducted sessions of specialized certificate course on International Accounting Standards, and was a very popular trainer in the Investors’ Education Program which provides investment knowledge to the existing and potential investors in the capital market. Besides, Dr. Debnath taught as an adjunct faculty at the Brac Business School before joining as a full-time faculty. Dr. Debnath takes great interest in pursuing high-impact policy research and regularly publishes in highly ranked journals. Dr. Debnath’s Doctoral thesis was on Corporate Governance and Real Earnings Management. Dr. Debnath is a fellow of the Institute of Cost and Management Accountants of Bangladesh (ICMAB). While working at BICM, Dr. Debnath received advanced training on Mergers and Acquisitions, International Accounting Standards, and Equity Valuation from international institutes like the New York Institute of Finance, USA, Bombay Stock Exchange, India and CMTC, Malaysia. Dr. Debnath appears regularly on different television shows on the economy and the Bangladesh Capital Market.
, School of Management, Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology, Bhubaneswar, India
, The Institute of Cost and Management Accountants of Bangladesh
of Business Administration (MBA), Accounting & Information Systems, 2005, University of Dhaka
of Business Administration (BBA), Accounting & Information Systems, 2004, University of Dhaka
, 7th in order of merit list in the Board
Bhowmik, R., Debnath, G. C.,
Debnath, N. C.
, & Wang, S. (2022). Emerging stock market reactions to shocks during various crisis periods.
(9 September).
https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0272450
, Patnaik, B. C. M., & Satpathy, I. (2019). Female directorship and real earnings management in Bangladesh: Towards an analytical assessment.
Management Science Letters
(11), 1723–1740.
https://doi.org/10.5267/j.msl.2019.6.018
Patnaik, B. C. M., Satpathy, I., &
(2019). Wisdom that equality tends to offer: The case of real earnings management practices of female directors in IT-friendly firms of Bangladesh.
International Journal of Engineering and Advanced Technology
(6), 328–334.
https://doi.org/10.35940/ijeat.E7667.088619
, Chowdhury, S. P., & Khan, S. (2022). The impact of audit quality on real earnings management: evidence from Bangladesh.
International Journal of Disclosure and Governance
(2), 218–231.
https://doi.org/10.1057/s41310-021-00137-x
, & Sarkar, J. B. (2013). Future implications of revised code on Corporate Governance (CG) in the context of Bangladesh: Perception of diversified group of stakeholders.
The Cost and Management
(5), 11–16.
https://icmab.gov.bd/journal/volume-xli-issue-4/
Hasan. M.M., &
(2007). Profitability of banks in Bangladesh: An analysis of trends and casual relation.
IAS & IFRS, Advanced Accounting, Taxation, Cost Accounting, Management Accounting, Financial Accounting, International Finance, Investment Management, Financial Institutions and Markets.