Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/about/people/md-arif-hossain-mazumder-phd
Page Title: Md Arif Hossain Mazumder, PhD | BRAC University

Md Arif Hossain Mazumder, PhD | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Md Arif Hossain Mazumder, PhD
Assistant Professor
BRAC Business School
arif.mazumder@bracu.ac.bd
Level: 5, Room: 5A05
Kha-224 Merul Badda
Dhaka 1212. Bangladesh
Dr. Arif Hossain Mazumder joined the Brac Business School as a fulltime Assistant Professor in May 2022. His role primarily involves teaching, research and university services. Dr. Arif teaches accounting and finance at both undergraduate and graduate level, supervises student projects and research, and performs duties related to the university and the community.
Prior to becoming a full-time academic, he worked as a public accountant in Australia, assisting SMEs and individuals. Also, from Spring 2019, he worked as a sessional academic, at the School of Business of Western Sydney University, Australia.
Dr. Arif is a keen researcher in personal financial wellbeing issues; with a view to assist individuals, educators, professionals, advocacy groups, regulators, and policy makers. His research interests are founded on the doctoral thesis- examining personal financial planning in a developing economy context.
Professionally, Dr. Arif is a full member (public accountant) of the Institute of Public Accountants (IPA), Australia. Dr. Arif is an active participant of various school activities, committees, and industry programs. As a firm believer of the Brac Business School’s vision; Dr. Arif is passionate about contributing his professional and academic wisdom, towards making human-centric future business leaders.
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.)
Thesis title:
Personal financial planning of the emerging middle-class in Bangladesh: A case study.
Western Sydney University, Australia.
Completion and awarded: 2022
Master of Applied Finance- Financial Planning
Charles Sturt University, Australia.
Master of Commerce-Professional Accounting (M. Com.PA)
University of New England, Australia.
Master of Professional Accounting (MPA)
University of Wollongong, Australia.
Bachelor of Business Administration (Marketing)
East West University, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
Conferences
Mazumder, M. A.
(2020). Financial planning attitudes and intentions of the middleclass in Bangladesh.
AFS 2020 Proceedings
https://academyfinancial.org/2020Proceedings
Mazumder, M. A. H.
Personal financial planning of the emerging middle-class in Bangladesh : A case study
[Western Sydney University].
http://hdl.handle.net/1959.7/uws:67164
• Cost Accounting
• Corporate Finance II
• Financial Accounting & Analysis
Brac Business School (BBS) Research Grant Award-2023
Project: Households Financial Literacy and Financial Wellbeing in Bangladesh.
Member, Institute of Public Accountants, Australia.
(with Public Practice Certificate)