Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/admissions/joint-phd-admission
Page Title: Joint PhD Admission | BRAC University

Joint PhD Admission | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
•    SOAS is ranked
third in the world for the study of global development
•   BRAC University is one of the top private universities in Bangladesh, and part of the
BRAC family of development organizations,
one of the largest and most successful international non-governmental organizations in the world
The joint PhD enables candidates to study and build theoretical frameworks under the supervision of leading scholars of development while based at SOAS. They would then immerse themselves in contextualizing theories and empirically testing ideas in field-based research under the supervision of prominent and highly experienced researchers in an environment of applied research in Bangladesh. A strong field-based perspective will allow students to critically analyse existing theories and develop or update frameworks accordingly. Throughout the process, they would be jointly supervised by faculty members at both universities. The PhD will have an overarching structure that will enable students to follow either a Development Studies path or an Economics path, like the PhD in International Development at SOAS.
Students currently engaging in policy-relevant development research in a northern university typically have time and money for a relatively short ‘fieldwork’ component in the south as part of their thesis. The unique design of this PhD will radically change what ‘fieldwork’ means as a significant part of the thesis will be researched and written in the ‘field’. The students will work with both supervisors in areas where the supervisors have expertise, interest, or ongoing research projects. This combination will be a unique offering in the field of development policy-related PhDs and is likely to be of interest to students beyond the UK and Bangladesh.
The joint PhD programme invites candidates with proposals on or related to the following topics:
-    Feasible and effective anti-corruption
-    Political settlements and political economy analysis
-    Governance reform
-    Citizen feedback, grievance redress and public sector accountability mechanisms
-    Business environment and economic sectoral analysis
-    The politics of public sector service delivery (e.g. education, social protection, energy)
-    The politics of disasters
-    Women’s rights struggles and the politics of gender equality
-    Protests, civil society and social movements
-    Work, Labour markets, and Labour rights
We normally require a 2.1 bachelor's degree plus a Masters degree with a Merit classification in a Social Science plus one reference. In exceptional cases we may accept applicants who do not meet these criteria if they show evidence of a strong Masters degree and/or appropriate level of relevant work experience. International applicants should also see
Doctoral School English language requirements.
Student mobility will not be compulsory. Each doctoral candidate will be jointly supervised by faculty at both universities and will have the opportunity to spend significant periods of time at each institution.