Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/news/brac-university-recognizes-57-faculty-members-quality-journal-publication-award-2025
Page Title: BRAC University recognizes 57 faculty members with ‘Quality Journal Publication Award 2025 | BRAC University

BRAC University recognizes 57 faculty members with ‘Quality Journal Publication Award 2025 | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
BRAC University recognizes 57 faculty members with ‘Quality Journal Publication Award 2025
Publish Date:
April 27th, 2025
BRAC University has continued to recognize researchers for a second year in a row, this time presenting “Quality Journal Publication Award 2025” to 57 faculty members through a ceremony on its Merul Badda campus in Dhaka on 24 April 2025 for their high-impact research.
The faculty members published 145 research papers. Of them, 74 were published in journals ranked within the top 10% of Q1 journals in Scopus, while 71 in the top 15%.
Scopus is a multidisciplinary database focusing peer-reviewed journal and conference literature and patent records. The Q1 journals are widely recognized for their significant impact on research.
The research of the awardees encompassed a myriad of contemporary issues, such as examining the consequences of fake online reviews, the effect of rehabilitation programs on beggars, and leveraging a smartwatch for salat activity recognition.
They also touched upon the health sector, examining the susceptibility of ICU patients to ventilator-associated pneumonia, stimulating factors for obsessive-compulsive behavior, ways to deal with age-associated memory impairment, and detecting major depressive disorders through blood tests.
Agriculture, climate and businesses were also on the agenda through the examination of carbon, climate and energy futures; financial stress on renewable energy consumption, effect of spraying mineral nutrients on maize, fintech solutions for smallholder agriculture value chains, women entrepreneurs’ challenges, and food waste prevention practices.
The ICT sector garnered a lot of attention as the researchers offered an advanced e-commerce customer segmentation model, fast bitcoin verification confirmation and stable earnings for miners, and high-accuracy in identifying transportation modes while addressing user privacy issues.
They also sought to provide a reliable intrusion detection system in wireless networks with small amounts of data, provide a learning model to efficiently create blocks of blockchains for managing and storing data, and use smartphone images to determine air quality.
Besides, there was research on examining one of Bangladesh’s indigenous languages called Kurukh and the transformation of applied linguistics in the Global South context of Bangladesh.
Research initiated at BRAC University in recent years have garnered accolade and continue to draw relevance to this day, be it in Bangladesh or beyond.
Studies on Bangladesh’s garment factories are shaping relations with buyers amidst US President Donald Trump’s recent reciprocal tariffs, vaccine cold chains are being reimagined for agriculture and food security, research on the Rohingya population have led to adoption of youth collaborations through “Peace Cafes”, and solutions to utilizing urban lands below elevated road infrastructures are proving invaluable to megacities like Dhaka.
While BRAC University’s research recognitions come with financial incentives of BDT 1,00,000 for the 10% publications and BDT 50,000 for the 15% publications, it also intends to ignite researchers’ commitment to society.
It is rooted to one of BRAC University’s strategic pillars on “Research for Impact”—to continue to lead from the Global South in leveraging knowledge to solve some of the world’s most pressing issues.
The awarding ceremony’s opening remarks were delivered by Professor AKM Abdul Malek Azad, Chair of Research Metrics Committee (RMC) and Professor of the Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering. Registrar Dr. David Dowland also spoke on the occasion.
The ceremony is a reaffirmation of the university’s dedication to quality research and creating a collective legacy of learning, said Professor Md Golam Samdani Fakir, Director of BRAC University’s Learning and Teaching Innovation Center, at one of the ceremony’s sessions.
Dr. Firdausi Qadri, a Senior Scientist of the International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh (icddr,b), spoke on the importance of publications, such as in cross-disciplinary knowledge exchange, alongside reaching those who provide funding, such as World Health Organization.
Professor Mustafizur Rahman, Member of the Board of Trustees of BRAC University and a Distinguished Fellow of the Centre for Policy Dialogue, urged the researchers not to forget about their commitment to society when publishing in good journals.
Professor Munshi Sulaiman, Director for Research at the BRAC Institute of Governance and Development of BRAC University, gave a lighthearted speech on the frustrations of research and encouraged engaging in research competitions with other institutions “for the good things”.
Professor Dr Md Saidur Rahman, Member of the University Grants Commission of Bangladesh, as chief guest, said the Bangladesh government recognizes the value of institutions like BRAC University, which tirelessly pursue research-driven innovation and the building of a knowledge-based society.
Professor Syed Ferhat Anwar, Vice-Chancellor of BRAC University, said, “BRAC University stands apart in a unique way—our core foundation in education and research is centered on human development. Without this focus, we risk failing to build a truly progressive society and world.”
At a plenary session, researchers with publications in the top 1% of Q1 journals in Scopus shared their insights and achievements.
At parallel sessions, the researchers gave oral presentations on their 145 papers and engaged in discussions and shared ideas with peers from diverse fields.
Professor Raushanara Akter, a Member of the RMC, gave the closing remark in the final session.