Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/admissions/tuition-fee-waiver-postgraduate-programs
Page Title: Tuition fee waiver for postgraduate programs | BRAC University

Tuition fee waiver for postgraduate programs | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
For all BRAC University Post Graduate Programs except MBA, EMBA, ECD, M.Ed and MPH programs (Effective from Summer-2017 semester)
BRAC University offers a diverse range of academic programs led by highly qualified faculty, with rigorous curricula designed to meet international standards.
Graduates from Public University and UGC approved Universities will get 20% - 40% waiver on their tuition fees based on their undergraduate results.
Categories of Waiver
(%) of Tuition Fee Waiver
Tuition fee waiver for graduate students of BRAC University
Tuition fee waiver for graduate students of other Universities
Up to 40%* (As per the following table)
Tuition Fee Waiver
2.50 - 3.00
3.01 - 3.25
3.26 - 3.50
3.51 – 3.75
3.76 – 4.00
Tuition Fee Waiver for MBA & EMBA programs
(Effective from Fall-2022 semester)
25% (Only to the eligible BRAC University graduates with a minimum CGPA of 3.00 and above)
Up to 20%* (As per the following table)
Institute/Corporate Discount
Tuition fees waiver for the full-time confirmed employees of BRAC Enterprises
Tuition Fee Waiver for the Students from Ethnic Background (New)
Tuition Fee Waiver for the Female Students & 3rd Gender (New)
*Graduate Students of other Universities
3:00 - 3.49
3.50 - 4.00
Students from Indigenous (Tribal/Ethnic) communities of Bangladesh include
Chakma Tribe, Marma Tribe, Tripura Tribe, Santals, Tanchangya Tribe, Khumi Tribe, Mro Tribe, Lushai Tribe, The Jaintia, Garos and Khasi Tribe, Khiang Tribe, Bawm and Pankhu Tribe, Chak Tribe, The Mros, Keot (Kaibarta), “Pangal or Pangan” (The Muslim tribes), Pankho, Khumi, Kokborok, Sadri, and Chak Tribe.
General conditions:
If a student is eligible for more than one tuition fee waiver, only the higher one will be adjusted.
Students are required to take minimum 6 credits in each semester in order to avail the tuition fee waiver.
Scholarship Committee may change the policy and eligibility criteria from time to time based on the availability of funds. The Scholarship Committee will make its endeavors to give advance notice of changes.
1. BRAC University Law graduates will receive a 10% tuition fee waiver, while eligible BRAC University graduates with a minimum CGPA of 3.00 or above will be entitled to a 25% waiver.
2. 10% Corporate discount for more than 3 participants from any Law Chamber.
3. 10% Tuition fee waiver for the female students.
4. 10% Tuition fee waiver for the students from Ethnic backgrounds.
Students having tuition fee waiver may also apply for other scholarships, if eligible.
For detailed information, please visit
Scholarship Policy
For further query, please contact:
scholarship@bracu.ac.bd
Request for Information