Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/avilable-program/master-business-administration-mba
Page Title: Master of Business Administration (MBA) | BRAC University

Master of Business Administration (MBA) | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Master of Business Administration (MBA)
Program Overview
The Master of Business Administration (MBA) program of BRAC Business School (BBS) aims at enabling students to learn and practice the contemporary business and management concepts. This program is designed for graduates who would be entering the job market for the first time, mid-level executives in organizations aspiring to career advancement, or entrepreneurs. This program offers concentration in the following functional areas of business:
Accounting
Business Analytics
Human Resources Management
Operations and Supply Chain Management
Entrepreneurship and
Information Technology Management.
The MBA of BBS is a skill-based, 60-credit hour (19 courses and an internship) program with a duration of two-and-half years of full-time study. However, a student may be eligible for a waiver of up to 24 credits depending on his/her academic background. All classes are held in the evening on weekdays and during weekend.
Program Highlights
Salient Features of Our MBA Program:
- One of the most conveniently located campuses in Dhaka City, equipped with state-of-the-art facilities.
- Suitable evening & weekend classes for the professionals
- Specialization/concentration in one or more areas of Accounting, Finance, Marketing, HRM, Operations & Supply Chain Management, Entrepreneurship and Information Technology Management
- Classes are conducted by the finest academics and experienced business professionals
- Industry-driven cutting-edge curriculum & pedagogy
- Opportunity to build network with the seasoned professionals from industry and senior academicians
- Generous scholarships and tuition fee waiver options.
Career Opportunities
Graduates of the BBS MBA program have attained significant success in several professions, utilizing their improved skills and expertise to flourish in leadership positions across industries. Numerous individuals have attained high roles in prominent multinational organizations, including Chief Financial Officers, Marketing Directors, and Operations Managers, while others have pursued entrepreneurship, establishing successful startups that exert a global influence. Our BRAC Business School’s MBA alumni network comprises executives who have revolutionized their organizations, spearheaded innovative initiatives, and penetrated new markets. Their accomplishments underscore the program’s dedication to provide students with the strategic and analytical competencies essential for success in the contemporary corporate landscape.
What our alumni say about BBS MBA program
“My MBA helped me gain confidence in my profession and acquire skills outside my comfort zone. It enhanced my ability to link my clinical experience with the business of medical profession”.
Dr Shagufa Anwar
Healthcare Market and Private Sector Consultant
BRAC University BBS MBA Class of 2009
“Thanks to the MBA program of BRAC University that has helped me to engage better in my profession – to plan better and act decisively”.
Mr. Md. Gias Uddin Biswas
Chief Operating Officer
Herlan New York, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
BRAC University BBS MBA Class of 2011
Placement and Further Study Opportunities
In pursuit of ongoing internationalization, BRAC Business School (BBS) has established significant collaborative agreements with various esteemed national and international institutions and organizations.  It has initiated partnerships with respected foreign colleges and organizations. Here are the list of partnering academic institutions and corporations with BBS:
Partnering University
University of New Castle, UK
The University of Lincoln, UK
Texas A & M University-Commerce, USA
Altinbas University, Turkey
Macquaire University, Australia
Franklin University Switzerland
Partnering Organization
Bangladesh Foreign Trade Institute (BFTI)
Standard Chartered Bank Ltd
Instutute of Chartered Accountants Bangladesh (ICAB)
Institute of Chartered Secretaries of Bangladesh (ICSB)
Institute of Cost Management Accountants Bangladesh (ICMAB)
Students Placement Office
Office of Career Services and Alumni Relations (OCSAR)
OCSAR facilitates the transition of students efficient & effective into their professional life which will ultimately lead to successful careers for them. In keeping with students’ needs and developments in the professional world. The career service helps students and graduates set clear career paths and realistic goals.
Services provided by the Office of Career Services and Alumni Relations (OCSAR):
- Professional Skills Development Program (PSDP)
- Internship placement
- Job placement
- On-Campus recruitment session
- Career and networking session
- Career fair
- Career counseling
- Help furnishing CV & cover letter
Course-based Program Structure
Curriculum Structure
Students are required to complete a minimum of 12 courses (subject to the course waiver policy) for successful completion of the MBA Program. The standard duration of the MBA program is 2.5 years (5 Semesters). However, one may complete the graduation requirements within a slightly shorter or over a longer period – depending on the credit waiver received and the chosen course loads. The overall structure of the program is given below:
Course Categories
Minimum Credit Requirements
Foundation Courses* (7)
Advanced Core Courses (7)
Integrative/Capstone Courses (2)
Program Elective/Concentration/Major Courses** (3)
Internship/Thesis/Projects (if applicable) *** (1)
Total Credits
*Students may be waived 1 – 7 foundation courses depending on their previous academic records. In such case, the total number of courses may reduce. Thus, a student must take a minimum of 12 courses and may require a maximum of 20 courses to complete their degree.
**Students may opt for double major option or no major option.
***Students with at least three months of relevant full-time work experience or equivalent may be waived from the internship.
Detail structure of the program
Course Code and Title
Credit Hours
Contact Hours/Week
FOUNDATION COURSES
(7 courses - 21 credits)
These courses are waiveable subject to course waiver policy
BUS521-Accounting for Professionals
BUS522- Managerial Communications
BUS524- Quantitative Techniques in Business Operations
BUS526- Financial System and Managerial Finance
BUS527- Organizational Behavior, Leadership and Ethics
BUS528- Management Information System
BUS529- Marketing Management
ADVANCED CORE COURSES
BUS525-Macroeconomics Analysis and Managerial Economics
BUS620-Business Research Methods and Data Analytics
ACT620-Strategic Cost and Management Accounting
FIN620-Corporate Financial Strategy
MKT620-Strategic Marketing
HRM620-Strategic Human Resource Management
OPN620-Logistics and Supply Chain Management
INTEGRATIVE/CAPSTONE COURSES
(2 courses - 6 credits)
BUS670-Entrepreneurship and International Business
BUS675-Strategic Management and Sustainability
INTERNSHIP
(1 course - 3 credits)
BUS680-Internship
CONCENTRATION/MAJOR COURSES
(3 courses - 9 credits)
Students are required to pursue a major in at least one of the specific areas of business as mentioned below. Students may opt to major in General Business by taking 3 courses from any of MBA major required or elective courses.
Accounting (3 courses - 9 credits)
Students are required to take one mandatory course and two elective courses for a Major in Accounting.
Mandatory for Major:
ACT651-Advanced Financial Accounting
Electives for Major:
ACT652-Accounting for Performance Management
ACT653-Accounting Information Systems
ACT654-Taxation
ACT655-Auditing
ACT656-Corporate Governance and Professional Ethics
ACT658-Financial Reporting Analytics
ACT666-Contemporary Issues in Accounting
Business Analytics (3 courses - 9 credits)
Students are required to take one mandatory course and two elective courses for a Major in Business Analytics.
BAN641-Business Analytics Methods, Models, and Decisions
BAN642 Business Intelligence and Advanced Data Management
BAN643-Modern Business Data Mining
BAN644-Applied Machine Learning for Business Analytics with Python
BAN645-Big Data Analytics
FIN657-Fin-Tech and Financial Data Analytics
HRM659-Human Resources Analytics
MKT658-Marketing Analytics
OPN622-Analytical Decision Making
OPN632-Business Forecasting and Data Analysis
BAN666-Contemporary Issues in Business Analytics
Entrepreneurship (3 courses - 9 credits)
Students are required to take one mandatory course and two elective courses for a Major in Entrepreneurship.
ENT651-Business Development for New Enterprises
ENT653-Environment of Business, Innovation and Disruption
ENT654-Small Business Management
ENT655-Social Entrepreneurship
ENT656-Entrepreneurial Finance
ENT657-Innovation Management and Entrepreneurial Marketing
ENT666-Contemporary Issues in Entrepreneurship
Finance (3 courses - 9 credits)
Students are required to take one mandatory course and two elective courses for a Major in Finance.
FIN652-Investment Management
FIN651-Financial Institution Management
FIN653-International Finance
FIN654-Financial Modeling, Analysis and Forecasting
FIN655-Derivatives and Risk Management
FIN656-Entrepreneurial Finance
FIN657-Financial Technology (FinTech)
FIN666-Contemporary Issues in Finance
Human Resources Management (3 courses - 9 credits)
Students are required to take one mandatory course and two elective courses for a Major in Human Resources Management.
HRM652-Human Resource Planning Policies and Staffing
HRM650-Strategic HRM and Application of Integrated Organizational Models
HRM651-Performance Appraisal System
HRM653-Leadership and Interpersonal Relations
HRM655-Industrial Relations and Labor Laws
HRM659-Technology and Tools for Managing HR System
HRM660-Management of Organizational Change and Sustainability
HRM661-Compensation Policy
HRM663-Sustainability and Industry 4.0
HRM666-Contemporary Issues in Human Resources Management
Information Technology Management (3 courses - 9 credits)
Students are required to take one mandatory course and two elective courses for a Major in Information Technology Management.
ITM655-Digital Transformation
ITM630-Technology Management and Innovation
ITM651-Information Security, Privacy and Policy
ITM652-Digital Media Analytics
ITM653-Managing Disruptive Technologies
ITM654-Exploring and Visualizing Data
ITM656-Business Intelligence and Data Mining
ITM666: Contemporary Issues in Information Technology Management
Marketing (3 courses - 9 credits)
Students are required to take one mandatory course and two elective courses for a Major in Marketing.
MKT651-Consumer Behavior
MKT652-Digital Marketing Strategies
MKT653-Strategic Brand Management
MKT654-Applied Marketing Research
MKT655-Service Marketing
MKT656-Global Marketing
MKT657-Advanced Marketing Communication Strategy
MKT666-Contemporary Issues in Marketing
Operations and Supply Chain Management (3 courses - 9 credits)
Students are required to take one mandatory course and two elective courses for a Major in Operations and Supply Chain Management.
OPN626-Production and Inventory Management
OPN623-Project Management
OPN625-Total Quality Management
OPN628-Management Science
OPN630-Technology Management and Innovation
OPN631-Forecasting and Data Analysis
OPN666-Contemporary Issues in Operations and Supply Chain Management
Program Flow (Year/Level/Semester/Term wise distribution of courses)
Recommended Course Sequences
RECOMMENDED COURSES
1st Semester
2nd Semester
3rd Semester
4th Semester
MANDATORY MAJOR COURSE
MAJOR ELECTIVE
5th Semester
BUS680: INTERNSHIP
Semester-wise Recommended Course Sequences with Prerequisite Course list
Total Credit Hours
Contact Hours/ Week
Prerequisite
BUS521: Accounting for Professionals
BUS522: Managerial Communications
BUS524: Quantitative Techniques in Business Operations
BUS527: Organizational Behavior, Leadership and Ethics
BUS526: Financial System and Managerial Finance
BUS528: Management Information System
BUS529: Marketing Management
BUS525: Macroeconomics Analysis and Managerial Economics
BUS620: Business Research Methods and Data Analytics
ACT620: Strategic Cost and Management Accounting
FIN620: Corporate Financial Strategy
MKT620: Strategic Marketing
HRM620: Strategic Human Resource Management
OPN620: Logistics and Supply Chain Management
MAJOR ELECTIVE COURSE
BUS670: Entrepreneurship and International Business
All Advanced Core Courses
BUS675: Strategic Management and Sustainability
All courses
Course Details
The course primarily focuses on harnessing the skills and ability of learners to understand the sophisticated language of accounting and its key components. In particular, the course will build a strong foundation for the learners to boost their skills by enabling them to analyze financial statements to deal with strategic options more effectively for their business units. Additionally, the learners will be able to take away highly relevant skills in areas such as budgeting, products, and service costing to make decisions effectively for making the organizations
sustainable. (3 credits)
Prerequisites:
The primary objective of this course is to introduce learners to the various forms of written and oral communication that are helpful and, in most cases, necessary in real-life business situations or in our professional lives. Mainly focus will be on the contemporary aspects of business communication, in the work-place in particular, and businesses in general. A brief look at the theory of communication will also be considered and then the study rapidly would drill down to the practical details and essentials of business communication. This means the course will cover business writings such as business letter and memo writing, persuasive message writing and examine what sort of tone, language, style and format should be adhered to whilst doing so. (3 credits)
This course intends to develop students’ understanding of business analytics, quantitative methods, and management science in decision process. It familiarizes the students with the mathematical optimization techniques and statistical tools required for day-to-day operations and also for strategic long-term business decisions made by the managers from mid-level and beyond. The course will cover mathematics and statistics which are necessary for analyzing problem and to take effective decisions in business organization. (3 credits)
BUS526: Financial Systems and Managerial Finance
This course introduces the role and functioning of the financial system, and the basic concepts, tools and techniques for financial management. The financial system consists of financial instruments, markets and institutions. Familiarity and understanding of this financial environment are essential for making financial decisions of individuals and businesses. The learners will develop the knowledge of fundamental principles and theories of finance and the ability to apply various tools and techniques to make sound financial decisions. This course is designed to cover all these essential elements of managerial knowledge and expertise. (3 credits)
The course is designed to study interactions that occur among people in the workplace and the individual, group and organizational processes and how these affects organizational performance. It studies various skills necessary for a successful manager. It includes analysis of management, basics of planning, organizing, leading and controlling, leadership techniques, and interpersonal relations in business and non-business organizations. It studies workplace related ethics and the psychological principles behind people’s actions. (3 credits)
BUS528: Management Information Systems
This course provides a broad overview of the issues managers face in the selection, use, and management of information technology (IT). Increasingly, IT is being used as a tool to implement business strategies and gain competitive advantage, not merely to support business operations. Using a case study approach, topics include information technology and strategy, information technology and organization, and information technology assets management. The course takes management rather than a technical approach to the material presented. As such, it should be of use to students of general management interested in information technology and to students of information technology interested in management. (3 credits)
This course is designed to introduce students with the fundamental concepts of marketing and help them appreciate the role of marketing in strategy formulation and implementation at all levels of company management. Students will develop an understanding of how to design marketing strategy for a firm to create and deliver customer value and acquire skills needed to take prudent decisions for market segmentation, targeting, branding, pricing, distribution, and promotion by applying the basic concepts and theories of marketing considering the ethical and environmental concern. Students are required to analyze the practices of a range of organizations presented in case studies, simulations and guest presentations from marketing practitioners based on the ideas presented in this course. (3 credits)
BUS 525: Macroeconomics Analysis and Managerial Economics
The course is designed to provide a foundation on microeconomics and macroeconomics. The course then focuses on how these core branches of economics are related to a business environment, with special emphasis on Bangladesh. Topics include the application of economic concepts that are related to competition, market power and externalities. Microeconomics concepts include: demand and supply analysis; alternatives to prices in resource allocation; cost and production; competition; market power; oligopoly; public goods; externalities; asymmetric information. Macroeconomics concepts include: aggregate hike national income, unemployment, investment, inflation, foreign exchange and monetary policy. Macroeconomic concepts are also discussed in the context of policies relating growth and overall development of countries. (3 credits)
Research, being an important element in the business world, permeates almost every facet of life. Effective research is necessary for successful decision making in the business world. Thus, the course intends to cover the numerous aspects of the business research process and design. This course will help students to familiarize with different research methods employed in research studies. In emphasizing on good information to make good decisions, this course will help students to acquire the skills to design different research methods and then collect, analyze and interpret the data that will provide useful insights in making informed strategic decisions for different organizational settings in both local and global contexts. (3 credits)
BUS524 Quantitative Techniques in Business Operations
The course covers strategic cost and management accounting practices for the learners to apply across different areas of a firm. The emphasis of the course is placed on measuring and evaluating cost methods to make decisions and evaluate performance. To hone the managerial skills of the learners, the course explores contemporary cost and management accounting topics to design and implement strategic, marketing, and value-added models for modern organizations. Different case studies related to different industries and decision contexts will be covered to enhance the managerial knowledge of the learners. (3 credits)
Prerequisites
: BUS521 Accounting for Professionals
This course focuses on (advance) concepts of Financial Management and relevant corporate financial strategies. Special emphasis is given on integration of these concepts, strategies, and models into a total systems approach - for rewarding financial decision-making, in a global context. In addition to the most essential short- and long-term investment and financing decisions, the course emphasizes strategic issues of financial planning, corporate valuation and restructuring, risk management, corporate governance, and ethics. Corporate Financial Strategy (Corporate Finance) is an (internal) focus on how companies invest in real assets and how they raise the funds to finance these investments. (3 credits)
: BUS526 Financial System and Managerial Finance
This course aims to align the organizational capabilities with market conditions to gain competitive advantage for the firm over its competitors. Analysis of organizational capabilities using standard framework of SWOT and TOWS supplemented by market-driven data enable the company to draw the future line of action ought to be pursued to reach its strategic goals. The topics include Market-Driven Strategy, Markets and Competitive Space, Strategic Market Segmentation, Innovation and New-Product Strategy, Strategic Brand Management, Value-Chain, Pricing and Promotion Strategy. The course will be instructed upon following the case study method, and problem identification and solving activities in real life context. (3 credits)
BUS529 Marketing Management
This course is designed to study how strategic thinking can be applied to Human Resource Management. It covers the advanced topics in Human Resource Management and their strategic application in an organization from a manager’s perspective. It deals with how organizations can integrate HR strategies into organizational strategies and vice versa. It deals with contemporary issues in Human Resource Management. It provides students a comprehensive and elaborate review of essential HRM concepts, techniques and ideas to enhance their knowledge base and open their minds in the relevant field. (3 credits)
BUS527 Organizational Behavior, Leadership and Ethics
This course integrates related contents to cover two important functional areas of contemporary business firms; operations and supply chain management. The course is outlined to cover high-level operations and supply chain strategy and concepts, including a solid understanding on how to solve logistics and supply chain problems. The following topics will be covered in this course: Concepts of operations and supply chain management, Forecasting; Plant location and factory layout design; Process design; Materials management; Inventory control and Maintenance management; Strategic role of supply chain, Key drivers of supply chain decision, Trade-off between efficiency and responsiveness, Network design in the supply chain, green and sustainable supply chain management. (3 credits)
This course covers the entrepreneurial process from conception to birth to adolescence of a new venture. It concentrates on attributes of entrepreneurs/entrepreneurs searching for opportunities, and gathering resources to convert opportunities into businesses, locally and internationally. Students learn to evaluate new ventures and develop a business plan to pursue those ventures in different sociological, cultural, legal, political, and economic environment. Students are also introduced to international finance, economics, marketing, international organizations and regulatory bodies. (3 credits)
All foundation courses, HRM620 Strategic Human Resource Management, OPN620 Logistics and Supply Chain Management
BUS675: Strategic Management
This integrative course deals with the overall management of an organization. It is concerned with the determination of the strategic direction of the firm, as well as the management of strategy processes within the firm. The primary objective of the course is for the student to develop a perspective of the general manager's role and responsibilities. It deals with developing the capability to understand a firm's strategic situation in depth and to develop viable alternatives for dealing with the key issues facing it. The relationship between organization structure and strategy are examined, and tools are developed for examining the firm's industry and competitive environment. Strategy at the business unit, divisional, and corporate level are studied. This course builds on other core courses. (3 credits)
All advanced core courses
BUS680 Internship is a mandatory requirement for graduating students of the MBA program without significant prior work experience. Under the internship, a learner is placed in an organization where s/he works for a period of three months or equivalent. Upon completion, learners submit a report consisting of three chapters: Chapter I: Overview of Internship, Chapter II: Organization Part and Chapter III: Project Part; followed by a presentation/defense. The internship is carried out under the guidance of three supervisors: a company supervisor provides mentoring and guidance at the place of work; and two faculty members of BRAC Business School serve as academic supervisor and co-supervisor for providing necessary guidance in research and writing the internship report. As an alternative to the internship, a student may opt for Thesis/Case Writing. Please refer to MBA Thesis and Case Writing Guideline and Standards for more details. (3 credits)
: Completion of all required courses as per policy
ACT651: Advanced Financial Accounting
The course will build on knowledge obtained in the core Accounting modules of BUS521 and BUS620 to explore some of the more complex and controversial areas of financial reporting. The purpose would be to develop a critical understanding of conceptual issues in financial accounting as well as to enhance technical and analytical skills. The course will cover the advanced analysis and interpretation of the annual report, some of the more complex accounting standards not addressed in earlier modules, and current issues in financial reporting. Students are also introduced to accounting for capital reconstruction and the importance of accounting narratives and imagery in annual reports. (3 credits)
ACT652: Accounting for Performance Management
The course develops an understanding of the strategic issues and applied tools pertaining to strategic management accounting. The focus is on making well-informed decisions and obtaining insights into financial analysis and managerial decisions to make appropriate decisions for the organization. The contents of the course cover key areas that are essential for a manager to overcome challenges when faced with a complex and dynamic business environment. (3 credits)
: ACT620 Strategic Cost and Management Accounting
ACT653: Accounting Information Systems
The course intends to equip students with an overall knowledge and understanding of accounting information systems (AIS) and the implications of AIS in contemporary businesses. The course explores the applications of AIS in businesses to support strategic and operational decision-making activities. The course also focuses on information systems documentation maneuvers and the way AIS are applied to record and process business transactions for making informed decisions. Additionally, the course also provides hands-on experiences of accounting-based software for the students to deal with the digital business world. (3 credits)
ACT654: Taxation
Every individual is affected by the tax system of the country one way or another, without even realizing it. Corporate tax issues must be considered in nearly all key business decisions because of the complexity and comprehensiveness of the Bangladesh tax system. This course aims to provide the students with the basic ideas regarding taxation concepts and ways of computing taxes from different sources as per the provisions of Bangladesh Income Tax Ordinance 1984, and the updated Finance Act. The key focus of the course is on developing skills and knowledge necessary to calculate income taxes accurately for individuals, businesses and corporations. (3 credits)
ACT655: Auditing
This course on auditing examines the underlying audit concepts, practices, and frameworks in relation to its crucial role in corporate governance.  The key focus of the course is to provide an overview of both internal and external audit process as it exists in Bangladesh and globally. Apart from helping the students who are planning to pursue a career in public accounting and internal auditing, this course will prepare the students to face external auditors skillfully while working for their respective companies. (3 credits)
ACT656: Corporate Governance and Professional Ethics
The course develops an integrated understanding of corporate governance structures to balance managerial autonomy and corporate accountability. In this view, the course examines the roles and interactions among the key stakeholders including shareholders, a board of directors, and its committees, managers, and the regulators. The course focuses specifically on analytical tools and
cases to refine students’ capability to analyze and effectively respond to ethical challenges that they may face in future professions. (3 credits)
ACT658: Financial Reporting Analytics
The course aims to increase the ability of the students to analyze information to make effective communications between corporate managers and stakeholders. Specifically, the course emphasizes on financial statements, disclosures, and interactions with intermediaries from the obtained financial information. In particular, the course helps students to critically evaluate the financial performance of the firms and communicate the information with stakeholders to making informed decisions. (3 credits)
ACT666: Contemporary Issues in Accounting
The course examines special issues and/or contemporary events in the area of Accounting at an advanced level. Selection of topics depends on the relevance and importance to the field, interest and preference of learners and instructors. Topic specific Course Description, Course Objectives (COs), Course Learning Outcomes (CLOs) and the Mapping of Course Learning Outcomes (CLOs) with the Program Learning Outcomes (PLOs) will be outlined Subject to the special issue. (3 credits)
Entrepreneurship
ENT651: Business Development for New Enterprises
This course aims to provide clinical understanding of Business development best practices in the field of a new enterprise across traditional and disruptive start-ups, corporate business development, and tech venture assignments. The course stresses the understanding of the new venture and business development market and developing skills in assessing company needs, writing proposals, and conducting focused business research projects. (3 credits)
: BUS527 Organizational Behavior, Leadership and Ethics
ENT653: Environment of Business, Innovation and Disruption
The macroeconomic environment in which business operates is rapidly changing and it is high time for students to know how the business can survive and thrive in the competitive milieu after the pandemic and other global crisis. It is observed that only those companies are ahead of others who have an entrepreneurial and innovative mindset while they operate their day-to-day activities. In this course, we will look at both micro and macro environmental outcomes that are directly impacting the business organizations medium, small to micro-organizations. It will help the students to prepare with various types of analysis and get ready to have a flawless plan to combat global and local crises.  Students will also be able to focus on company resources and capabilities that cater to the need to plan innovatively to meet the demand of the entrepreneurial and digital era of the 21st-century. (3 credits)
ENT654: Small Business Management
This course provides an exploration into the fundamentals of effective small business management. Topics such as growth, advertising, financial analysis, budgeting, purchasing, inventory management, and financial control are also covered. This course also looks at some of the special issues facing small business owners and managers: technology, crime, risk management, family business, ethics, and the global marketplace. (3 credits)
ENT655: Social Entrepreneurship
This is a collaborative, cross-institution course in social entrepreneurship, in which student teams ideate and develop models for social enterprises. Social entrepreneurship is the process of building new organizations that offer scalable solutions to social and environmental challenges. Social enterprise can be either for-profit, or non-profit, but key focus is the ambition to address societal problems at scale. The practice of social entrepreneurship explores the full suite of liberal learning: critical analysis, persuasive writing, oral communication, quantitative reasoning, design thinking, and group social dynamics. Students will engage with classes from several universities internationally, through synchronous online learning and labs. (3 credits)
ENT656: Entrepreneurial Finance
This course focuses on the overview of the venture capital industry; the organization and operation of venture capital funds; investment methodology; monitoring and portfolio liquidation; leveraged investing; and specialized investments. It explores entrepreneurial finance issues from the perspective of both the owner/manager and the professional investor (i.e. business angel or venture capital/private equity). (3 credits)
: BUS526 Financial System and Managerial Finance and BUS527 Organizational Behavior, Leadership and Ethics
ENT657: Innovation Management and Entrepreneurial Marketing
This core module addresses three parts: first, theories of technology innovation in emerging markets, strategies to sustain innovation and how to capture value. Second, how to think entrepreneurially, building organizational capabilities and business models. Third, how to finance a new venture, and the financial implications of various business decisions. Through this module students will be empowered to present their own venture to external stakeholders more effectively. (3 credits)
ENT666: Contemporary Issues in Entrepreneurship
The course examines special issues and/or contemporary events in the area of Entrepreneurship at an advanced level. Selection of topics depends on the relevance and importance to the field, interest and preference of learners and instructors. Topic specific Course Description, Course Objectives (COs), Course Learning Outcomes (CLOs) and the Mapping of Course Learning Outcomes (CLOs) with the Program Learning Outcomes (PLOs) will be outlined Subject to the special issue. (3 credits)
FIN652: Investment Management
An investment is the current commitment of money or other resources in the expectation of reaping future benefits.  In this course, the overall goal is to be familiar with the investment environment and develop skills and abilities to manage the investment process. This process involves identifying investor’s objectives and constraints; diagnosing current and projected financial, economic, political and social conditions; formulating and implementing strategies with optimal risk-return trade off, and monitoring and updating the portfolio as needed. Ethical and technological issues affecting investment in the global marketplace are also emphasized. (3 credits)
: FIN620 Corporate Financial Strategy
FIN651: Financial Institutions Management
The course provides an analysis of the role of financial intermediaries in providing financial services to individuals, businesses and the government, and the framework for management of the modern-day financial institutions – the central banks, commercial and investment banks, insurance and finance companies, mutual and pension funds. The main focus of the course is on understanding the operations of these institutions and management of their performance - using the latest tools and techniques of asset, liability and risk management. Ethical and technological issues, affecting the global financial intermediation, are also emphasized. (3 credits)
FIN653: International Finance
This course provides students a framework for making corporate financial decisions in an international context. It primarily focuses on various theories of exchange rate determination, operational significance of international financial markets, various risks faced by the multinational firms, strategies used to hedge exchange rate risk, methods of financing international operations, and capital budgeting decisions in an international framework. The course identifies unique opportunities and challenges of international operations and covers tools and techniques essential for effective financial management in the global context. (3 credits)
FIN654: Financial Modeling, Analysis and Forecasting
This course examines the essential financial modeling skills to analyze and manage risk and business performance in today’s globally competitive world. Modeling and simulation techniques using MS Excel will be the focus; however, other tools and techniques will be also covered. Students will learn advanced methods and techniques of financial modeling which will enhance their ability to forecast more accurately while minimizing the error, as such, it will equip them to better manage risk and uncertainty. (3 credits)
FIN655: Derivatives and Risk Management
The course “Financial Derivates” is structured for the students who are interested in devolving their career in corporate finance and/or investment banking. It examines a broad array of derivative products, such as forwards, futures, and options. Topics include: analysis of derivative securities, operation of option/future markets, basic techniques for pricing and hedging, arbitrage, interest rate derivatives and the use of derivatives for financial risk management. (3 credits)
FIN656 Entrepreneurial Finance
: BUS526 Financial System and Managerial Finance, BUS527 Organizational Behavior, Leadership and Ethics
FIN657: Financial Technology (FinTech)
This course is designed to enable students with the necessary tools to understand the complex interaction of finance, technology and regulation. It focuses on the recent development and concerns of FinTech and its impact on the stakeholders in the context of global economy. Major topics of FinTech, including Blockchain, Cryptocurrencies, Digital and alternative Finance, Big Data, Machine Learning, Neural Network, and Algorithmic Trading. (3 credits)
FIN666: Contemporary Issues in Finance
The course examines special issues and/or contemporary events in the area of Finance at an advanced level. Selection of topics depends on the relevance and importance to the field, interest and preference of learners and instructors. Topic specific Course Description, Course Objectives (COs), Course Learning Outcomes (CLOs) and the Mapping of Course Learning Outcomes (CLOs) with the Program Learning Outcomes (PLOs) will be outlined Subject to the special issue. (3 credits)
HRM652: Human Resource Planning Policies and Staffing
The primary objective of this course is to provide a deeper understanding of the essential elements of manpower Planning or human resource planning (HRP) process in organizations. Learners will acquire knowledge in analyzing, assessing and programming for human resource requirements of organizational business plans and strategies relating to attraction, development and retention of employees. The course will also be the avenue to understand practical ideas regarding different generational employees. Quantitative as well as qualitative concepts, approaches and techniques are emphasized in this course for the greater understanding relating to the HRM policies and staffing. (3 credits)
: HRM620 Strategic Human Resource Management
HRM650: Strategic HRM and application of integrated organizational models
This course is designed to study how Strategic Human Resource Management can be applied into building organizational competitive advantages. The course focuses on linking Strategic human resource management with organizational competitiveness for sustainability. It deals with contemporary issues in Human Resource Management such as innovation management, globalization and the management of diversity. It enhances the student’s KSA and its applicability in an elaborate manner of essential HRM concepts, techniques and ideas. (3 credits)
HRM651: Performance Appraisal System
This course aims to critically assess the concepts on Performance Appraisal System and diverse methods related to this core HRM function. It scrutinizes job holders’ (employees’, labors and managerial leads) job descriptions, job specifications and their deliverables that is significantly related to their intrinsic motivation. The course also focuses on the structures of industrial relations, government regulations, labor market along with the market analysis and its impact on the performances of the employees in organizational context. Performance appraisal system dives into the smart targets along with the developmental requirements of those and carrying out those with constructive feedback from various ends. (3 credits)
HRM653: Leadership and Interpersonal Relations
This course concentrates on the aspiring managerial values and leadership skills. It helps students to become a leader who challenges the process and inspires a shared vision among the organizational members. Students must be able to comprehend the importance of interpersonal relationships by managing people, fostering effective communication, emphasizing stress and conflict management, for effective team building. The course will aid the students to learn to apply the organizational ethics and its importance to build a sustainable organizational culture. (3 credits)
HRM655: Industrial Relations and Labor Laws
This course examines how the interactions between and among workers, management, and the state shape and define the structure and experience of work. The course discusses the following topic: Intro to IR Theory, Employment Relations: The Economic Paradigm, IR Dynamics, Theory of Unionism, No-union Worker Voice and IR Theory, Alternate Paradigms of Industrial Relations, Comparative IR Theory, Public Policy and IR Theory, Integration and Synthesis. The course also embraces the importance of labor laws. Moreover, it incorporates the protocols of labor laws and applicability. (3 credits)
HRM659: Technology and Tools for Managing HR System
This course introduces the best technology and tools for attracting, developing, motivating and retaining a workforce, it considers human resource issues such as recruitment and selection, diversity performance evaluation, compensation and reward systems, teams, worker participation programs etc. Human resource information systems (HRIS) concepts will be linked to HR activities such as performance management, employee communications and support, recruiting, equal employment opportunity and affirmative action. Students will gain an understanding and appreciation of how technology is used in HR to gain competitive advantage. (3 credits)
HRM660: Management of Organizational Change and Sustainability
The course aims at providing the students an in-depth understanding of the nature of change in contemporary businesses and sustainability issues. The course also has purposes to clarify the structures and functions of organizations to ensure sustainability issues and beyond. It also highlights management processes and skills required to manage the organizations effectively in the transitions towards sustainable and environmental alignment. The course also includes highlights on the technologies and trends for the development of sustainable organizations. (3 credits)
HRM661: Compensation Policy
This course aims to provide concepts on two distinct and diverse components of HRM. The course offers the Compensation Policy that reveals the complete package of various compensation protocols, various rules and layers. It focuses on the characteristics of employees and laborer’s along with their motivational factors and focuses on the structures of industrial relations, government regulations, labor market along with the market analysis. The course also emphasizes on the performance appraisal system in relation to compensation policy. The course also includes ideas on interviews, reviews and feedback on performance related compensation maintaining ethical and moral issues for a diversified workforce. (3 credits)
HRM663: Sustainability and Industry 4.0
This course grounds the theoretical and practical learning opportunity about fourth industrial revolution or Industry 4.0 that has been popularized by the German federal government in 2011. Moreover, the disruptive technologies economizing and improving efficiencies in industrial capabilities are also revealed. Furthermore, the course also focuses on the manufacturing industry with a signified implementation of instantaneous data transmission and its benefits inter-linking the real time digitization with humans, objects and machines. The Sustainable HRM technologies like Internet-of-Things (IoT), cyber-physical systems (CPS) and augmented reality are discussed as well. (3 credits)
HRM666: Contemporary Issues in Human Resource Management
The course examines special issues and/or contemporary events in the area of Human Resource Management at an advanced level. Selection of topics depends on the relevance and importance to the field, interest and preference of learners and instructors. Topic specific Course Description, Course Objectives (COs), Course Learning Outcomes (CLOs) and the Mapping of Course Learning Outcomes (CLOs) with the Program Learning Outcomes (PLOs) will be outlined Subject to the special issue. (3 credits)
Information Technology Management
ITM655: Digital Transformation
This course covers the fundamental principles of digital transformation in the fields of business, the process of utilizing digital technology to develop new or adapt existing business processes, culture, and consumer experiences in order to satisfy changing business and market requirements. The aim of this course is to give students business insights based on current and future technology trends and to raise the awareness of the audience around the rapid evolution of Technology by building up thoughts around ways how to adapt them in our everyday life. (3 credits)
: BUS528 Management Information System
ITM630: Technology Management and Innovation
This course is designed to focus on the key concepts, models, and methods that enable manager to effectively manage the development and utilization of technologies. It will focus on how industries and firms are transformed by new technologies, and what factors affect the innovation performance.   The concept of technology is broad and it refers to the process by which an organization transforms their inputs into output (product/services). Both technology and innovation play a significant role in the development of business processes. (3 credits)
ITM651: Information Security, Privacy, and Policy
This course provides students with an introduction to information security policies. Students will be introduced to sociological and psychological issues in policy implementation in general and then provided a focused dialogue on information security-specific policies. The class discusses the entire lifecycle of policy creation and enactment and presents the students with issue-specific policies in different domains of security. The structure of the policy is also discussed to assist the students design and modifying policies. Several examples from different domains are incorporated into the curriculum to assist the students to learn the in context of real-life situations. (3 credits)
ITM652: Digital Media Analytics
The explosion in digital media - web, social, and now mobile - represents a departure from how things were like in the last century. This proliferation of digital media is both a threat and an opportunity for many businesses. Business Analytics can be leveraged to process data, sentiment, buzz, contacts, context, and other aspects of business interest in realtime, for business performance and impact. The course picks and uses use-cases from a variety of industries and geographies, to showcase the potential and impact that business analytics did properly (or not) can have on business performance. (3 credits)
ITM653: Managing Disruptive Technologies
Disruptive Technologies are the ultimate challenge in change management. It impacts not only industry structures and strategic positioning, but it affects all levels of an organization (every task, activity, and process), and even its extended supply chain. At this course, we will try to understand the history of Disruptive Technologies that have changed our lives and we shall look together into the future and how other technologies are expected to create a new world of opportunities and risks in the business world and in our lives. We will review in detail the basis of disruptive innovation, while examining the historical processes that have caused some of these technologies that accompany us today to conceal entire technologies and industries overnight. Although these processes may seem incidental, we will try to gauge the motivations behind these technologies as well as the ways in which businesses must adapt to the new world that is being created. (3 credits)
ITM654: Exploring and Visualizing Data
This course covers the fundamentals of statistical exploration and visualization of data. We will fit models and produce specialized graphs to explore data in a detailed and statistics-oriented manner. This course also serves as a crash course in Microsoft Power BI/ Tableau/ Alteryx, a widely used Business Intelligence tool in Bangladesh and globally. It is designed to provide students with the foundations necessary for understanding and extending the current state of the art in data visualization. (3 credits)
ITM656: Business Intelligence and Data Mining
With the proliferation of Web 2.0 making inroads into the enterprises and industries, the ability to understand, analyze and interpret businesses from Big Data has become increasingly more important today. This class aims to equip you with highly demanded business analytics skills in the current job market. The course will focus on extracting business intelligence by leveraging firm's business data as well as online social media content for various applications, including (but not limited to) search engine marketing, social media analytics, crowd-sourcing management, market analysis and demand estimation, social network analysis, customer segmentation, customer relationship management (CRM), web mining and health care management. The class will be hands-on and the emphasis will be placed on the "know-how" aspect - how to extract and apply business intelligence to improve business decision making and marketing strategies. (3 credits)
The course examines special issues and/or contemporary events in the area of Information Technology at an advanced level. Selection of topics depends on the relevance and importance to the field, interest and preference of learners and instructors. Topic specific Course Description, Course Objectives (COs), Course Learning Outcomes (CLOs) and the Mapping of Course Learning Outcomes (CLOs) with the Program Learning Outcomes (PLOs) will be outlined Subject to the special issue. (3 credits)
MKT651: Consumer Behavior
To compete effectively in the marketplace, every firm needs a business strategy. Ultimately, a strategy is deemed successful if the firm can convince customers to buy more of its products and less of the competitor's. This happens only if the firm markets a product that satisfies the needs of consumers through an understanding of the psychological and environmental forces influencing consumer behavior. This course capitalizes on the theories and applications of social sciences, behavioral economics, anthropology, and psychology to strengthen students’ understanding of consumer behavior. (3 credits)
: MKT620 Strategic Marketing
MKT652: Digital Marketing Strategies
The Digital Marketing Strategies Course addresses all of the marketing strategies that are particular to this extremely competitive digital arena. The goal of this course is to identify the many components of digital marketing and to examine each one of these components' unique marketing approach. This course explores the following: affiliate marketing, email marketing, global marketing, social media marketing, and search engine marketing. A thorough understanding of each one of these aspects is necessary to cultivate a successful digital marketing campaign. Advanced topics are discussed within each type of marketing strategy, and companion case studies align with the course content. (3 credits)
MKT653: Strategic Brand Management
The inventions of digital technologies and social media platforms have dramatically advanced the growth of brands both locally and globally. Brands convey essential signals to consumers about the quality and other features of the products/services. Brands have unique and personal meanings. Brands are important assets and companies that invest in brands gain a sustainable competitive advantage over time. The course explains the importance of brands to a firm, what it means to the market and how to build a brand, and measure and manage brand equity. Students will be able to study critical branding theories and models and reflect on and improve knowledge and practices through case studies and exercises. (3 credits)
MKT654: Applied Marketing Research
The aim of this course is to provide an overview of marketing research. The emphasis will be on discussing how research can aid in well-informed decision making. The course will guide students on each step of marketing research: problem definition, research design, sampling techniques, data collection techniques, data analysis and interpretation and recommendation. Students will work with real world research problems and develop and implement an appropriate research design. They will employ statistical software to analyze data to present their findings and finally they will apply knowledge of marketing in providing recommendations. (3 credits)
MKT655: Service Marketing
This course examines the need for marketing in service industries, develops an understanding of the ways in which service marketing differs from product marketing, and improves students' understanding of how service characteristics affect the marketing function. Students learn to develop and implement marketing plans for service organizations. Major topics include the Gaps Model of Service Quality, building Customer Relationships, Service Recovery, Service Innovation and Design, and Physical Evidence and the Servicescape. The course follows a mixed approach to knowledge development – learning related concepts and hands-on practice in the classroom on contemporary issues. (3 credits)
MKT656: Global Marketing
The focus of the course is to provide MBA students with a basic understanding of global marketing. This course will aid students to develop an appreciation of how organizations can expand and extend their market across borders and source ideas and innovation into and from foreign countries or industries. The students will also learn how different organizations operate and respond to different economic and cultural contexts. The course will help MBA students to learn the operational aspects of designing the four Ps keeping international law, culture, competitors, and consumers in mind. (3 credits)
MKT657: Advanced Marketing Communication Strategy
Advanced Marketing Communication course aims to prepare the students in developing strategic knowledge on advertising, publicity, public relations, sales promotion, digital communication and overall marketing campaign to help build their brand equity. The course will help students to acquire managerial information concerning advanced methods of applied theories into context as well as prepare a budget for an integrated communication plan. In a dynamic business environment, the scope of communication is forever evolving- hence the students will be exposed to overcome challenges faced by advertising agencies in developing communication objectives, planning and budgeting and the implementation and evaluation of communication media strategy. (3 credits)
MKT658: Marketing Analytics
The Marketing Analytics course is designed to meet the increasing demand of firms for data analysts who can take data-driven decisions to address the issues related to marketing. Today’s organizations are exposed to a vast amount of data about customer choices. However, the availability of information is not sufficient to enable better decision making. Interpretation of data is a challenge, and analytics can help marketers to analyze the data scientifically to improve and justify business decisions. This course will introduce the concepts and methods of marketing analytics showing its applications with examples in lab classes. Students will use relevant software to build models and work with data. (3 credits)
MKT666: Contemporary Issues in Marketing
The course examines special issues and/or contemporary events in the area of Marketing at an advanced level. Selection of topics depends on the relevance and importance to the field, interest and preference of learners and instructors. Topic specific Course Description, Course Objectives (COs), Course Learning Outcomes (CLOs) and the Mapping of Course Learning Outcomes (CLOs) with the Program Learning Outcomes (PLOs) will be outlined Subject to the special issue. (3 credits)
OPN626: Production and Inventory Management
This course introduces necessary tools and techniques of production and inventory management. It discusses how a business organization remains competitive in business by adopting appropriate strategies for increased productivity. It also explains the necessity of building required capacity for a selected process to be carried out in processing a product by taking into consideration the concerned facility planning. Qualitative and quantitative techniques of management and controlling quality of a product are illustrated with numerical business example problems. Necessity and importance of inventory management are introduced. Various modeling techniques of inventory management-like Economic Order Quantity (EOQ), Economic Production Quantity (EPQ), quantity discount and planned shortages models along with business problems illustration are presented. (3 credits)
: OPN620 Logistics and Supply Chain Management
OPN622: Analytical Decision Making
The course deals with the fundamental concept of Analytical Decision Making. This course will enable you to gain knowledge and develop skills in business data analytics. It focuses on the uses of data analytics techniques within business and management contexts, using contextually relevant software, tools, and techniques to make smart and data-driven decisions. The course will emphasize how the appropriate use of analytics can create a competitive advantage for the organization. (3 credits)
OPN623: Project Management
The course deals with the fundamental concept of project management. It introduces to students how to practice initiating, planning, executing, controlling, and closing a project to achieve specific goals by meeting specific success criteria at a specified time. It teaches prioritizing project activities, and how to complete a project within minimum time by using both the Probabilistic (PERT, Program/Project Evaluation and Review Technique) and the deterministic techniques (CPM, Critical Path Method). The method of crashing a project to a certain extent with minimum cost, the process of leveling resources, and controlling projects are also taught. It also deals with scheduling, budgeting, controlling, and managing project risks. (3 credits)
OPN625: Total Quality Management
This course is designed to deliver the multi-dimensional aspects of the concept of quality basics and total quality management (TQM). Besides that, it focuses on the principles, tools, and techniques of TQM and its practices in organizations. How one can solve and cope up with the business situation by maintaining the quality of output are of principal interests of this course. Topics covered include contributions of quality gurus like Deming, Juran, Ishikawa, and others. Award of TQM, Techniques of quality measurement, like process quality control, Pareto chart, histogram, fishbone, JIT, Six Sigma, teamwork, house of quality configuration, etc. will be discussed in-depth to enhance the skill of the students. Students will learn how to implement total quality management in either manufacturing or service firms. (3 credits)
OPN628: Management Science
This course introduces various quantitative techniques of optimization of cost, time of producing products/services and delivering them to customers. It includes both the linear and the non-linear programming modeling techniques of business problems and optimal solution procedures to them. Transportation and assignment problems as parts of linear programming problem are also discussed. Network modeling techniques of optimization are introduced along with business example problems. Basic game theoretic solution to business problems is discussed. Both the simulation and the Markov decision process-based solution to business problems are explained. Importance of waiting line management in business is highlighted with the solution of business problems by queuing modeling technique. (3 credits)
OPN630: Technology Management and Innovation
OPN631: Forecasting and Data Analysis
This course presents basic statistical techniques that are useful for preparing individual business forecasts. Accurate forecasting of future events and their outcomes is a crucial input into a successful business or economic planning process. This course introduces the application of various forecasting techniques. The methods include simple trend plus seasonal plus cycle models, exponential smoothing, autoregressive and moving average models, regression modeling, and leading indicators. The course also looks at techniques for the evaluation of the performance of forecasting methods and examines the role of forecasts in the decision-making process. Students will learn how to use these techniques in real-world forecasting applications. (3 credits)
OPN634: Business Process Analysis, Design and Implementation
Business Process Analysis, Design and Implementation course will be equipped with the knowledge and skill sets to excel you as a Business Process Analyst. Business process analysts supposed to have the essential skills to develop a system. The analyst plays a major role in the development of the new information system or redesigning the existing system.  This course delivers the necessary contents to prepares students to become a professional business process analyst. (3 credits)
OPN666: Contemporary Issues in Operations and Supply Chain Management
The course examines special issues and/or contemporary events in the area of Operations and Supply Chain Management at an advanced level. Selection of topics depends on the relevance and importance to the field, interest and preference of learners and instructors. Topic specific Course Description, Course Objectives (COs), Course Learning Outcomes (CLOs) and the Mapping of Course Learning Outcomes (CLOs) with the Program Learning Outcomes (PLOs) will be outlined Subject to the special issue. (3 credits)
Facilities and Support
Dedicated Bus Service exclusively for the MBA & EMBA program Students:
BRAC University has been operating a dedicated bus service exclusively for its MBA & EMBA program students. The university has allocated a fleet of ten buses to facilitate the commuting needs including of the MBA & EMBA students. The dedicated bus service is expected to contribute significantly to the university's mission of providing accessible and student-friendly amenities.