Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/about/people/ekramul-islam-phd
Page Title: Ekramul Islam, PhD | BRAC University

Ekramul Islam, PhD | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Ekramul Islam, PhD
Assistant Professor
BRAC Business School
ekramul.islam@bracu.ac.bd
Level: 5, Room: 5A31
Kha-224 Merul Badda
Dhaka 1212. Bangladesh
Dr. Ekramul Islam
graduated from the Doctoral program in 2020 from the University of Louisville. His dissertation was on City Branding and its use in the governance of emotions. His current research interests involve City Branding, Financial Inclusion, Governance of Emotion, and Artificial Intelligence. Prior to the doctoral program, he completed two Master degrees: MS in Resource and Environmental Management and MBA from IBA, University of Dhaka.
Dr. Ekramul also has more than seven years of professional experience in financial sector development, especially in the emerging areas of climate finance, energy finance, affordable housing, gender, and digital financial services in South Asia.
When not working, Ekramul rides motorcycles and learns data science.
Ph.D. in Urban and Public Affairs
Doctoral Candidate
University of Louisville, USA
Dissertation: Compassion or Neoliberal Governance: Critiquing the
Discourse of Compassionate Louisville
Master in Business Administration
Institute of Business Administration, Dhaka University, Bangladesh
Master in Resource and Environmental Management
North South University, Bangladesh
Bachelor of Business Administration
Conferences
(2019, November). Critical discourse analysis as a method to study city branding as a tool of governmentality [Paper presentation].
Annual Conference of the International Place Branding Association.
Volos, Greece.
, & Islam, M. S. (2015, December). Assessing the environmental Risk Management practices in the banking sector of Bangladesh [Paper presentation].
International Conference on Climate Change and Water Security
. Dhaka, Bangladesh.
Paper Presented:
Critical Discourse Analysis as a Method to Study City Branding as a Tool of Governmentality.
Conference:
Assessing the Environmental Risk Management practices in the Banking sector of Bangladesh.
International Conference on Climate Change and Water Security.
Poster Presented:
Why Bangladesh is becoming a major market for sustainable energy
Advanced Energy Conference
Colloquium
Topic: Using Machine Learning as a methodology in Policy Research
BRAC Institute of Governance and
Development, BRAC University
Topic: Circular E-Waste, Capitalism, and Site-Multiple
Geography & Geosciences Seminar
Series, University of Louisville
Graduate Fellowship
received from the School of Interdisciplinary and Graduate Studies of University of Louisville 2016, Louisville, USA
Merit Scholarship
received from the Canadian International Development Agency (Building Environment Governance Capacity Project) to pursue the Master program in North South University 2011, Dhaka, Bangladesh
Fellowship received
Prince's Trust Initiative (PTI UK) to participation in the Mosaic International Leadership Programme in Jordan 2015, Amman, Jordan
of global World Bank-IFC competition - “Capturing your story”. 2012, Dhaka, Bangladesh
Quantitative Skills:
Agent-Based Modelling, Structural Equation Modelling, Principal Component
Factoring, Clustering, Econometrics, Bibliometric, GIS
Software package
: NetLogo Stata, SPSS, AMOS, ArcGIS, Citespace, Python, R
Qualitative Skills
: Critical Discourse Analysis, Content Analysis, Case Study, Ethnography
International Winter School: Agent Based Modeling of Social-Ecological Systems.
Simulation, Complexity Modeling, Netlogo
Arizona State University
January 2020
How Google does Machine Learning.
Machine Learning, Google Cloud, TensorFlow
Google Cloud (Coursera- Online Course)
What is Data Science?
Machine Learning, Data Analytics, Data Science,
IBM (Coursera- Online Course)
Tools for Data Science.
R, Python, Machine Learning, Data Science
Expected- September 2020
Natural Language Processing with Classification and Vector Spaces
Sentiment Analysis
Deeplearning.ai (Coursera- Online Course)
Foundations of Data Science: K-Means Clustering in Python
Python, Pandas, Clustering
University of London (Coursera- Online Course)
Machine Learning
Python, Matlab, Data Science
Stanford University (Coursera- Online Course)