Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/academics/schools-and-departments/bsrm-school-engineering/department-electrical-and-electronic
Page Title: Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering | BRAC University

Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
The department is committed to providing students with a solid foundation of a wide range of EEE courses designed in accordance with the curricula of renowned electrical and electronic engineering schools in North America and Europe, in an intellectually stimulating outcome-based student-centered teaching-learning setting, so that they are not only capable of using state-of-the-art engineering tools to identify, analyze and solve real world problems in sustainable way, but also inspired to strive for excellence in their personal and professional life, play leadership role and uphold human values.
Alongside providing a strong foundation with the fundamentals, the course curricula, laboratory facilities, teaching and learning strategies, and assessment tools and techniques are constantly being adapted to the fast-evolving technology and the stakeholders needs, so as not only to enable the graduates to meet the challenges of the emerging technologies of the 21st century, but also to help accelerate the growth of the new technologies.
Welcome from Department Chairperson
Vision of the Department:
Mission of the Department:
Academic Programs
At present, the Department of EEE offers the following undergraduate and graduate programs:
Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Electronic Engineering (BSEEE)
Bachelor of Science in Electronic and Communication Engineering (BSECE)
Master of Science in Electrical and Electronic Engineering (MScEEE)
Master of Engineering in Electrical and Electronic Engineering (MEnggEEE)
Faculty Overview
A good portion of the faculty members hold PhDs and have conducted a substantial amount of research and gathered experience on teaching and working at related industries at home and abroad. Most of the department’s faculty members hold master’s degrees from globally reputed universities and they are actively working in pushing the boundaries in their own fields of research, working as a team with students and research assistants towards BRAC University’s common goal of inspiring excellence. The faculty members are continuously publishing their works in reputed journals and conferences in this field. Recent publications of the faculty members include ACS Nano, IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices, IEEE GHTC, IEEE GLOBECOM, IEEE TENCON, etc.
Achievements
Since its establishment, the EEE department has continued to make significant contributions to social and humanitarian development through technology and research. There are a number of research groups and centres operating under the umbrella of this department. The Control and Applications Research Centre (CARC) focuses on areas of systems and control engineering. Most of the CARC projects involve close collaboration with national industry leaders such as EnergyPac Bangladesh, Brac Solar and IDCOL and international institutes like IEEE SIGHT.
The students from this department have developed the first nanosatellite titled “Brac Onnesha” for Bangladesh in collaboration with the Kyushu Institute of Technology, Japan. Faculty members along with students of this department have developed an up-to-the-minute ground station to communicate with the already deployed “Brac Onnesha” from International Space Station. It was taken there on SpaceX's Falcon 9 rocket.
Furthermore, the Robotics Lab had participated in an annual “Lunabotics Mining Competition” for two years in a row. “Chondrobot-2”, a BRAC University product, did exceptionally well during the second phase of the competition and was ranked as the best performing robot among all others from Asian universities. Currently, the lab is working on other robotic designs and developments focusing on various engineering challenges. A memorandum of understanding was signed between the EEE department and the Bangladesh Council of Scientific and Industrial Research to fabricate and characterize efficient and cost-effective solar energy systems. This giant leap is taking our students’ electronics designing skills to the fabrication and testing level in our country’s context.
Faculty and Research Staff
News and Events
Request for Information