Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/academics/institutes/brac-institute-languages/english-proficiency-development-course-epdc
Page Title: English Proficiency Development Course (EPDC) | BRAC University

English Proficiency Development Course (EPDC) | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Pre Intermediate
Description:
The course is for those who need basic English proficiency for communication. This course provides support for the learners to develop their reading, writing, speaking and listening skills along with building capacities to apply those skills in real life. The course reinforces on reading and listening comprehension, writing organization, informal and formal expressions, grammatical accuracy, speaking fluency, and interview skill.
Learning Objectives:
i. Building confidence in speaking and listening skills in English
ii. Developing fluency
iii. Giving basic focus on writing in organized forms
iv. Developing awareness of reading strategies
At the end of the course, the participants are expected:
i. To develop presentation skills (focusing on spoken skill)
ii. To improve the ability to use functional language in different situations
iii. To develop effective group discussion strategies
iv. To widen reading, writing, speaking and listening skills by ensuring exposure to different types of learning materials
Upper Intermediate
The course is specially designed for those who aim to acquire the English language competence of Upper Intermediate level for effective communication in both academic and professional arena. The course enriches all four skills of language with a focus on creative and critical thinking ability. Therefore this course relates awareness of context to language choice and foresees development in accuracy, clarity, variety of expression and style in social, professional and academic communication. The upper Intermediate EPDC also analyzes and outlines the specific demands of tasks typical of course being studied, plan and undertake relevant resource selection and Identify issues relevant to cross-cultural adjustment and discuss related cultural values. The total time duration of the course is 60 hours which consists of 3 classes per week, each class of 2:00 hours.
i. Relate awareness of context to language choice, and show development in accuracy, clarity, variety of expression and style in social, professional and academic communication
ii. Analyze, and outline the specific demands of tasks typical of course being studied, and plan and undertake relevant resource selection
ii. Demonstrate organizational and study skills including self-evaluation and goal setting
iv. Identify issues relevant to cross-cultural adjustment and discuss related cultural values
i. Organizing learning: defining the task, accessing resources, new vocabularies
ii. Understanding academic/corporate culture: formal communication, inductive thinking, selecting evidence
iii. Using patterns: analytical skills, information gathering, note-making, presenting evidence
iv. Sharing information: groups, roles and relationships, deductive thinking, formal oral presentation