Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/avilable-program/bachelor-business-administration-bba
Page Title: Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) | BRAC University

Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA)
Program Overview
This degree is ideal for those who want a future with fewer constraints. Studying BBA at BRAC University, students gain knowledge of real-world business practices, what it takes to start a successful business, and how to excel in the corporate world. The BBA program at BRAC University offers a distinctive set of specializations in various business disciplines: Accounting, Finance, E-Business, Entrepreneurship, Human Resource Management, Information Systems, Management, Marketing, Operations and Supply Chain Management, and others. Additionally, BRAC University has excellent professors who are always willing to assist students in the classroom and during consultation hours.
The combination of creative thinking and rigorous analysis students develop here makes them appealing for a wide range of jobs in corporates and the academic world.
Program Highlights
The Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) program aims at enabling students to acquire and practise state-of-the-art business and management knowledge and skills, thereby helping them become outstanding business leaders in the highly dynamic global environment of the 21st century. The program prepares students for entry-level managerial positions and equips them with knowledge and skills to advance to executive and senior positions in any organization. The program concentrates on Accounting, Finance, Banking and Insurance, Marketing, E-business, Human Resource Management, Computer Information Management, and Entrepreneurship. These specializations enable graduates to seek jobs in functional areas, such as marketing, finance, human resources and operations of organizations or in specific activities like accounting, information system and e-business, or to pursue a business career as an entrepreneur.
Career Opportunities
As a BRAC University graduate, one will be able to join the ranks of successful and influential professionals who are making a difference in organizations all over the world. BRAC University’s dedicated career guidance supports students throughout the year, assisting them in planning for the next stage of their careers and providing them with the tools and strategies to compete effectively in the global job market. Many of BRAC University’s graduates hold senior positions in management, marketing, and finance in a variety of industries and sectors, while others have started their businesses. Recent graduates have gone on to work for organizations such as the World Bank, UNICEF, Unilever, H&M, etc.
Placement and Further Study Opportunities
Students of BRAC University are placed in various companies and organizations. Some of these organizations have a global presence, while some students received international placements as well. Some of the top companies, where the students of BRAC University are employed, are given below:
Department
Current Organization
Designation
Tanzim Moin
International Recruitment SMEC
Lead Recruitment Coordinator
Md. Nur Ibna Saeed
Head of Transport (Ops Performance & Partnership)
Zoheb Ahmed
Meghna Group of Industries
Assistant General Manager, Brand
S.M. Mahmud Farhad
Marico Bangladesh
Associate General Manager
Hasan Bashir
Standard Chartered Bank (SCB)
Director and Head of Correspondent Banking
Nushrat Sharmin
The World Bank Headquarter
Capacity Building Specialist
Md. Asif-Al-Noor
Noor Mohammad Group of Businesses
Managing Director
Quazi Mortuza Ali
The City Bank Ltd
Head of Agent Banking
S M Ahtashamul Hoque
Marico Ltd.
Head of Channel & NPD
Sayeda Nabila Mahabub
S.M. Ziyad Ahmed
Robi Axiata Limited
Vice President, Strategic Planning
Siraj-Ud-Dowla Chowdhury
Additional Director & Head of the Department (F&A)
Md. Tajdin Hassan
The Daily Star
Head of Marketing
Porni Majumder
Marks & Spencer
BDSO Manager, HR & Admin (Head of HR)
Mohammad Hasan
ACS Textiles and Towels Bangladesh Ltd
Head (AGM) of HR & Administration
Farah Sharmeen Aolad
Coca-cola Bangladesh
Country PACS Head
Shahrear Zamil
BRAC Bank Limited
Head of Remittance & Probashi Banking
The course curriculum
The course curriculum for students enrolling before 2021
The course curriculum for students enrolling in 2021 and onwards
Facilities and Support
Counseling Unit
Medical Center
Tutorial classes by the Student Tutors and Teaching Assistants