Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/about/people/shamim-ahmed-khan-phd
Page Title: Shamim Ahmed Khan, PhD | BRAC University

Shamim Ahmed Khan, PhD | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Shamim Ahmed Khan, PhD
Assistant Professor
BRAC Business School
shamim.khan@bracu.ac.bd
Level : 5, Room: 5A08
Kha-224 Merul Badda
Dhaka 1212. Bangladesh
Dr. Shamim Ahmed Khan is a dedicated academic with a profound passion for research and teaching. An active contributor to his field, he has published in respected journals, including Energy and Environment and Research in International Business and Finance, authored multiple book chapters with reputed publishers such as Springer and Emerald, and presented at prominent international conferences such as the Academy of International Business Annual Conference and the Global Marketing Conference. His research interests include sustainable consumption, mindfulness, e-commerce, and contemporary social issues.
Dr. Shamim completed his PhD from Monash University under the fully funded Graduate Research Merit Scholarship. Previously, he earned his MSc from Universiti Putra Malaysia with the prestigious Yayasan Khazanah Asia Scholarship. These achievements mark a purposeful transition from a successful career in banking, where he held a role at the Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation (HSBC). With a distinctive background that blends industry expertise with academic insight, Shamim brings a grounded, practical approach to his role as an educator and researcher, bridging the gap between theoretical knowledge and real-world application. Outside of academia, he is an enthusiastic Arsenal fan and enjoys following the English Premier League.
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD), Monash University, Malaysia
Master of Science (MSc), Universiti Putra Malaysia, Malaysia
Master of Business Administration (MBA), North South University, Bangladesh
Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA), East West University, Bangladesha
Book Chapters
Khan, S. A.
, Watabe, M., & Ewe, S. Y. (2025). The double dividend of mindfulness in digital marketing: How mindfulness can drive sustainable consumption in the era of digital distraction. In T. W. Jee, E. Lau, & K. Mark (Eds.),
Mindful marketing and strategic management: Paving a sustainable society through past, present, and future perspectives.
Emerald Publishing.
Khan, S. A
., & Ewe, S. Y. (2024). Heng Hiap Industries: Pioneer in the plastic recycling industry. In D. S. Mutum, S. Y. Ewe, E. M. Ghazali, & R. L. Vincent (Eds.),
Marketing case studies in emerging markets.
Zainuddin, M., Mahi, M., Hassan, M. K., &
(2024). Platform economy deconstructed: Intellectual bases and emerging ethical issues.
Research in International Business and Finance, 71,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ribaf.2024.102497
., Zainuddin, M., & Arif, I. (2021). Economy–energy markets nexus during COVID-19: A dynamic time-frequency analysis.
Energy & Environment, 33
https://doi.org/10.1177/0958305X211032630
Khan, S. A.,
Hussin, S. R., & Hamid, A. B. A. (2018). Direction for future research in eWOM: Issues of credibility, format, and impact.
International Journal of Economic Research, 15
(2), 329–341.
Open-Ed and Column
Zainuddin, M., & Mahi, M. (2021, June). Rising xenophobia and anti-Asian racism amid COVID-19: A theoretical lens.
ICS Analysis.
Institute of Chinese Studies, Delhi.
Working Papers
(In progress).
From corporate hypocrisy to consumer resistance: The role of moral outrage and mindfulness.
(Manuscript in preparation).
, Ewe, S. Y., Ali, M. D., & Watabe, M. (In progress).
Intellectual structure of mindfulness in the green consumption domain.
Ewe, S. Y., &
Effect of social mindfulness on sustainable eating behavior.
Conference  Proceedings
Ewe, S. Y., Ali, M. Y., & Watabe, M. (2023). Self-determined motivation, mindfulness, and green consumption behavior.
Proceedings of the 2023 Global Marketing Conference,
Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Ewe, S. Y., Ali, M. Y., & Watabe, M. (2023). Intellectual structure of mindfulness research in the business studies domain: A bibliometric approach.
, & Mahi, M. (2023). From corporate hypocrisy to consumer protest: The role of moral outrage and mobilization networks.
RISM 2023 – Research Innovations in Sustainable Marketing,
University of Hawaii, Manoa, USA.
Mahi, M., &
(2023). Institutional environment for business resiliency: The role of social capital.
2023 International Academic Conference (IAC),
International University of Malaya-Wales, Malaysia.
& Mahi, M. (2022). Why do businesses fail? An institutional anatomy of business failure.
2022 Academy of International Business (AIB) Canada Chapter Conference,
Dalhousie University, Canada.
(2022). Knowledge clusters and ethical dimensions in platform economy: A scientometric mapping of twenty-five years.
Northeast Digital Marketing Conference (NEDM),
Newcastle University, UK.
Zainuddin, M., & Arif, I. (2020). Economic activity and energy markets in the time of crisis: Fresh evidence during COVID-19 pandemic using dynamic time-frequency analysis.
International Conference of the Faculty of Economics Brcko (ICFE-BD),
University of East Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina (pp. 3–8).
Zainuddin, M., Mahi, M., & Arif, I. (2020). Behavioral intention to use online learning during COVID-19: An analysis of the Technology Acceptance Model.
International Conference on Innovative Methods of Teaching and Technological Advancements in Higher Education (IMTTAHE),
European University, Georgia (pp. 3–12).
•    Business Research Methods and Data Analytics
•    Marketing Management
•    Marketing Research
•    Introduction to Marketing
•    Consumer Behavior
2023: Conference grant (Value: $1,100 approximately)
2022: Best Paper Award (Late stage) at the Monash University Doctoral Colloquium, 2022
2020: Graduate Research Merit Scholarship (Fully-funded scholarship for PhD)
2019: Yayasan Khazanah High Achievers Award (for academic achievement in MSc)
2018: Conference grant (Value: $2,200 approximately)
2016: Yayasan Khazanah Asia Scholarship (Fully-funded scholarship for MSc)