Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/about/people/mukit-anis
Page Title: Mukit Anis | BRAC University

Mukit Anis | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Mukit Anis
Lecturer,BRAC Business School
Program Lead,WEC
mukit.ani@bracu.ac.bd
Kha-224 Merul Badda
Dhaka 1212. Bangladesh
Mukit Anis,
an accomplished marketing professional with a global mindset, brings a wealth of industry experience and scholarly rigor to the Business School. Holding an impressive track record in the industry, he has guided prestigious brands toward unprecedented success. Mukit's journey from leading marketing initiatives in the marketing field brings invaluable knowledge at Brac Business School showcases his multifaceted expertise. With a passion for empowering students and a commitment to innovative research, Mukit exemplifies the perfect blend of academic excellence and practical wisdom.
Institution
MSc (International Strategic Marketing)
University of Glasgow, UK
BBA (Marketing & HR )
BRAC University , Bangladesh
High School Diploma
Conferences
Hafiz, N.,
, & Mourin, T. (2021, November 24). Efficacy of online classes during pandemic: A study on university students of Bangladesh introduction.
International Conference for Business and Management (ICBM-2021)
Hafiz, N., Majumdar, S.,
, Abdul Latiff, A., & Abd Wahab, S. (2021, November 5). An assessment of diversity, equity, and inclusion management practices in the small businesses of Bangladesh.
Course Code Course Title
Business and Human Communication
Principles of Marketing
Marketing Management
Advertising
Service Marketing
International Marketing
Grameenphone Commercial Aciever’s club, 2016.
Awarded with an exchange program by the Indian High Commission, October 2014.
Participated as regional finalist in 5th annual Hult Prize in Shanghai, China.
The Kennedy-Lugar YES Program by the U.S State Department, 2006 – 2007.
Performance-based scholarship at BRAC University, 2010 – 2011.
Vice Chancellor’s award and Dean’s for outstanding performance from BRAC