Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/avilable-program/master-arts-governance-and-development-magd
Page Title: Master of Arts in Governance and Development (MAGD) | BRAC University

Master of Arts in Governance and Development (MAGD) | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Master of Arts in Governance and Development (MAGD)
Program Overview
Today’s world is highly interconnected, fastchanging, and faces unprecedented technological transformations and existential threats like climate change. Consequently, there is an intensifying need for public policy to be evidence-informed, agile, forward-looking, and innovative, which requires highly competent policymakers and other policy actors. It also requires mature institutions, cooperation among stakeholders, and people’s participation. With this in mind, MAGD has been redesigned to prepare policy actors to effectively tackle the governance and development challenges of our time.
MAGD offers a wide range of expertise among the faculty, cross-learning opportunities with development programs, and connections with a strong alumni network.
The new curriculum focuses on goals for better governance, key challenges and success factors of reform and policymaking with analyses of real-life examples, and action steps for improving both people’s participation and institutional capacity building.
Program Highlights
Blend global academic expertise with local practitioner insights for strong governance and development foundations, linking theory to practical implementation;
Foster analytical skills through a multidisciplinary curriculum, covering various subjects from economics to public management;
Enhance the capacity of the government by training government executives, civil society, and private sector leaders to be change catalysts; and
Enable policy actors and professionals to effectively tackle 21st-century challenges and promote sustainable, inclusive country development.
Career Opportunities
MAGD cultivates critical thinking among the students and develops their skills to turn them into strategic, agile, efficient, and responsive actors of governance and development. Many of MAGD’s alumni have reached the highest echelons of government, exemplifying the program’s success. Moreover, as future government operations demand increased engagement and collaboration with non-government actors, MAGD graduates, including those from the non-government sector, hold a competitive advantage in forging successful careers in policy-related roles.
Course-based Program Structure
The MAGD program operates on an open credit system. Depending on the number of credits taken in each semester, the program may be completed in 3–5 semesters or within 12–20 calendar months. Classes are generally held from Saturday to Thursday, between 6:30 PM and 9:30 PM, offering necessary flexibility to working students.
The MAGD program comprises 36 credits, divided
as follows:
Preparatory*: 2 courses - Non credits
Core: 5 courses-  15 credits
Elective: 4 courses- 12 credits
Dissertation: 9 credits
*Preparatory courses offered depending on students’ background.
Course Details
a. Preparatory Courses
GOV 101: Basic Course in Computing (noncredit)
Course Description:
This course introduces students to the nature and use of computer programs. Students will acquire skills to help understand the most in demand and current technologies used in the workplace. The course is hands-on in clarifying terminology and imparting best practice skills for productive use of hardware and software. By the end of this course, students will be able to perform basic functions such as file management tasks and operating word processor and spreadsheet.
●    Windows
●    PowerPoint presentations
●    Excel
●    Electronic Communications
●    Referencing/Zotero
GOV 102: Principles of Economics (noncredit)
This introductory course is designed for students who have never studied economics before. This course is intended to introduce students to key concepts used in microeconomics, macroeconomics, trade, and contemporary development issues in order to facilitate a basic understanding of economic phenomena and current development issues, such as the impact of COVID-19 and the methodology used by economists to analyze problems. The contents are as follows:
The nature and method of economics; Individual markets: demand and supply; Elasticity of demand and supply; Production and cost; Market structures, with special focus on perfect competition and monopoly; Economic efficiency and market failure; Governing the market; Measurement of national income; Determination of national income: the aggregate demand and aggregate supply model; Unemployment; Inflation; The unemployment-inflation trade-off; Government budget and fiscal policy; Money creation and monetary policy; Business cycles; Economic growth; The theory of comparative advantage; Free trade versus protection; Balance of payments and exchange rate policy.
Course Contents
●    Understanding sociology and anthropology and how does it connect with development; Evolution of sociology and anthropology
●    Key sociologists and anthropologists (Emile Durkheim, Karl Marx, Max Weber)
●    Theoretical perspectives (Functionalism, Conflict-theories, actor/agent-oriented perspectives)
●    Anthropology/sociology and colonialism- the connection of the development of the disciplines and colonialism
●    Anthropological perspectives from developing countries
●    Culture and Cultural variation (Sub-culture, counterculture, ethnocentrism, cultural relativism, cultural lag)
●    Social Organization
●    Social Stratification
●    Social and Cultural Change
●    Community and Participation: Farmer First and Beyond Farmer First Approaches
●    Migration, Diaspora and Globalization
b. Core Courses
GOV 501: Introduction to Governance
Credit value: 3
Contact hours: Weekly 3 hours (Total 40 hours)
Total marks: 100
This course will serve as an introductory course to acquaint students with concepts of political science and how they relate to improved governance. It also aims to present governance concepts, issues and innovations by presenting them in historical, global and local dimensions. The mission of the present course is to help understand the dynamism of governance.
Additionally, the course will take on a social science angle to familiarize students with the fundamentals of social science by focusing on the concepts of politics and political economy. The course emphasizes conceptual issues but also refers to the empirical contexts of Bangladesh and other countries.
Course Content
●    Theoretical concepts of modern political science and political economy
●    Usage of normative and positive mode of analysis
● Human behavior in socio-political settings: Socio-political and ideological factors that affect governance, development and political process
● Definition and scope of governance, key principles and concepts, types of governance, good governance and its characteristics
● Governance Models: Democratic governance, Authoritarian governance, Hybrid governance systems, Corporate Governance and Global governance
●    Governance Theories: Principal-agent theory, Institutional Theory, Network Governance Theory, New Public Management and Participatory Governance
●    Historical overview of governance, concepts and their critiques
●    Stakeholders Role and Power Dynamics in the governance process
●    Democracy: accountability and transparency
●    Dynamism and innovations in governance: Participatory budgeting, citizen-driven initiatives, smart cities and data-driven governance
●    Issues and challenges in policy formulation and implementation: local and global
●    Nonprofit Governance and its social impact
GOV 502: Economics for Public Leadership
Public leadership has been generally described as ‘a role where a person holds a public office and serves and guides the community as a whole’. Public leadership is a system of collective leadership in which public bodies and agencies collaborate in achieving wellbeing of the society. Public leadership leads the framing of public policy and its implementation. While framing public policy, different economic principles, regulations, systems and frameworks are used. Some general principles of public sector economics are applicable for today and were equally applicable decades long ago. Some issues are evolving in public sector over the years. The major objective of the course is to understand the different economic theories, principles, regulations, systems and frameworks aimed at achieving efficient public policy. Understanding the role and rationale of government is another major objective of the course. Both Public financial management and public investment management for better public policy will be covered in this course. This course will also focus the evaluation and empirical methods to evaluate public policy. The contemporary issues in public sector economics will also be discussed in this course.
The course will utilize knowledge from micro and macroeconomics, learned from the preparatory course, on answering key questions such as,
●    When should the government intervene in the economy?
●    How might the government intervene?
●    What are the effects of those interventions on the economy?
●    Market Efficiency and market failure
●    Public Goods and Externalities
●    Public Expenditure
●    Taxation
●    Government debt
●    Public Financial Management
●    Public Investment Management
●    Evaluation of government policy/programs
●    Redistributive effect of fiscal policy
●    Case studies from Journal articles
●    Contemporary issues
GOV 503: Strategic Management
Course Description
This course addresses the fundamental question in strategic management: why do some organizations, particularly in emerging countries, outperform others? From a top management perspective, we aim to combine skills and knowledge from various functional areas, enhancing these competencies with the analytical tools and concepts of strategic management. We will explore the theory and concepts of strategic management, focusing on their practical applications, especially for public sector and non-profit organizations in emerging countries. Our aim is to understand how external conditions and internal resources can work together to create organizational value. In addition, we will explore key topics including globalization, the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), technological innovation, public policy, ethical considerations, and organizational social responsibilities, all with an emphasis on strategy implementation. To achieve our objectives, we will employ several methods such as lectures, class discussions, case discussions, case memo write-ups, and a live case analysis conducted in groups. The ultimate goal is to provide a comprehensive and robust exploration of strategic management from an emerging country perspective, with a particular focus on public sector and non-profit organizations, through this multi-faceted approach.
●    Understanding the Concept of Strategic Management
●    Overview of the Strategic Management Process
●    Strategic Management: A Key Catalyst for Governance and Development
●    Identifying Organizational Values, Mission, and Vision
●    Developing Organizational Purpose for Non-Profit and Public Sector Organizations
●    Crafting Vision and Mission Non-Profit and Public Sector Organizations
●    PESTLE (Political, Economic, Sociocultural, Technological, Legal, & Environmental) Analysis
●    Application of Porter's Five Forces Framework for Non-Profit and Public Sector
●    Conducting Stakeholder Analysis in Non-Profit and Public Sector Institutions
●    Understanding Resources, Capabilities, and Core Competencies
●    Value Chain Analysis for Non-Profit and Public Sector Organizations
●    Building Strategic Capabilities for Non-Profit and Public Sector Organizations
●    Basics of Functional Strategies
●    Business Strategies: Low-Cost vs. Differentiation Strategy vs. Niched
●    Importance of Functional and Business Strategies in Non-Profit and Public Sector Entities
●    Corporate Strategy & Scope of Organization
●    Fundamentals of Diversification from a Non-Profit and Public Sector Perspective
●    Artificial Intelligence for Organizational Advantages
●    Globalization from a Strategic Management Perspective
●    National Differences in Political, Economic, Legal Systems & their Implication for Strategy
●    Sustainable Development Goals
●    Interpreting the Climate Crisis through the Lens of Strategic Management
●    Sustainable Biodiversity Management
●    Social Responsibilities of Organizations
●    The Importance of Ethical Practices in Strategic Decision-making
●    Understanding the Interplay of Strategic Management and Public Policy
●    Strategic Approaches for Policy Influence
●    The Role of Trade Unions and Labor Unions in Influencing Government Policy
●    Role of Leadership in Strategy Implementation
●    Resource Allocation and Strategy Execution
GOV 504: Lessons in Development
The course provides an overview of development theories and concepts. It aims to elucidate diverse meanings of the word "development" and to explain alternative theories of why and how development takes place in a given society or fails to do so. The contents are as follows:
Development as structural change; Development as growth of national income; The theory of take-off; Development, dualism and modernization theory; Marxist critique and the dependency school; Post-modernist critique of development theory; Development and distribution: the Kuznetz’s hypothesis; Redistribution with growth, basic needs and poverty alleviation; Capability, human development and development as freedom; The right to development as a human right; Sustainable development; Development, the state and the market; Development in the age of globalization.
●    Development as structural change; Development as growth of national income; The theory of take-off
●    Development, dualism and modernization theory
●    Marxist critique and the dependency school
●    Post-modernist critique of development theory
●    Development and distribution: the Kuznetz’s hypothesis
●    Redistribution with growth, basic needs and poverty alleviation
●    Capability, human development and development as freedom
●    The right to development as a human right
●    Sustainable development
●    Development, the state and the market
●    Development in the age of globalization
GOV 505: Leading Issues of Governance in Bangladesh
To provide students with a theoretically informed understanding of the leading governance issues in Bangladesh and the ways in which these impinge on various development issues. In addition, the students will acquire analytical skills to develop, analyze and implement governance policies in various institutional settings.
●    Political economy of evolving state-society relations and political settlement in Bangladesh
●    Political economy of governance reform in Bangladesh
● Structure and functions of social accountability in Bangladesh, especially in relations to service deliveries at the local level
●    Governance issues in relations to digital services in Bangladesh
●    Local governance: structure, functions and political economic dynamics
●    Citizen engagement in development processes
Elective Courses: MAGD
Cluster A: Global Policy Framework
GOV 601: Environmental Management and Sustainable Development
The course introduces the concept and practice of sustainable development and presents some of its key environmental challenges. Selected issues on the environment that influence sustainable development will be presented. These include the environmental impacts of infrastructures, the need and appropriateness of green infrastructures, and environmental management policies, legislation, and institutions related to sustainable development.
●    History and rationale for sustainable development;  Drivers of environmental degradation
●    Role of environmental management in sustainable development
●    Integrated watershed management
●    Role of Infrastructures in development and their environmental impacts
●Strategic Environmental Assessments, Environmental impact Assessment, Environmental Management Plan
●    Governance challenges; National and International laws; Role of civil society.
GOV 602: Laws of International Governance and Cooperation
The objective of the Course is to provide: (1)  A conceptual and theoretical perspective of international law and (2) The application of governance regime that international law offers to maintain inter-state relations and intergovernmental organizations.
●    Jurisprudence; the theory of law, and international law of governance.
●    Treaty of Tordesillas and its territorial, linguistic, and cultural implications. Treaty of Westphalia and the beginning of nation-state system and the need for international law regulating their relations.
●    The Vienna Convention: and the beginning of new European order in post-Napoleonic era. The international treaties and agreements that followed the convention to make Europe safe from rising dictators.
●    Collective search for peace: The outbreak of WW1, the treaty of Versailles, the League of Nations; their role in the formation of the modern international legal system. Causes that rendered the league ineffective.
●    The end of WW2: the formation of The United Nations and institutions, international treaties and contracts under them.
●    International security concerns, the Non-align movement following the outbreak of the Cold War. International Court of Justice.
●    Multilateral development and trading organizations: The World Bank, ADB, AfDB, EBRD, and WTO.
●    The role of the World Bank in global development: IBRD (International Bank for Reconstruction and Development), IDA (International Development Association), IFC (International Finance Corporation).
●    IMF: its formation, macroeconomic governance & surveillance, role in international payment system and balance of payment support. The bailout programs - ECF, EFF and RFF to the distressed countries.
●    International protocols on environment, MDGs, SDGs, UNFCCC and COP series of agreements. High Commissioner of Human Rights.
●    Case study: Padma Bridge financing negotiation and the politics behind it. (The government, World Bank, JICA, ADB, and IDB)
GOV 603: Current Issues in Globalization
This course instils the concept, benefits, limitations and challenges of globalization from the national perspective. It will outline the process in which the modern world’s economy is formed from an institutional and chronological perspective. It will look into inter-country relations between Asia, Europe and the Americas. In doing so, it will highlight communist economies and their collapse. More specifically, it will highlight how the economy of China, a new economic world power, functioned throughout history. Additionally, the viewpoints of industrialized countries and the perspectives from eastern countries will be discussed using case studies.
●    Globalization
a)     The concepts and index of globalization
b)     Benefits and limitations of globalization
c)     Theoretical frameworks for understanding globalization
●    De-industrialization
● Globalization and Economic Dynamics (Trade liberalization, global supply chains, international finance, Economic inequality and development disparities in a globalized world)
●    International finance crisis and Narrowing global gaps
a)     International Monetary System
b)     Gold Standard
●    Controlling Global Crime
●    Emergence of Modern Growth
●    Inequalities inside Economies and Inequalities among Countries
●    Emergence of China as a World Economic Power
●    The emergence of Bangladesh in the global economy/market
●    Rapid Urbanization as a Consequence of Globalization
●    Technology transfer, Data privacy and property rights
●    Cross-border education, international student mobility, and knowledge transfer
●    Global Health and Spread of Diseases
●    Migration, Mobility, and Refugees
●    Geopolitical tensions, resource conflicts, and security challenges
Cluster B: Enhancing Performance
GOV 610: Budgeting and Management of Public Resources
The primary objective of this graduate level course, "Budgeting and Management of Public Resources," is to enable students to comprehend and critically evaluate the intricacies of public budgeting systems and their significance in managing public resources. The course aims to provide an in-depth understanding of different components of public budgeting including financing approaches, resource mobilization, deficit financing, taxation structures, and fiscal responsibility. This course also seeks to enhance students' understanding of the complexities associated with public budgeting processes such as medium-term budgetary frameworks, local government budgets, participatory budgeting, budgeting in nonprofit organizations, and the ethical considerations in public budgeting.
The course "Budgeting and Management of Public Resources" is structured around the following modules or sections:
●    Understand and Explain the Fundamentals of Public Budgeting Systems
a.            The definition and nature of public budgeting
b.            The importance and functions of public budgeting in an economy
c.            The complexities and challenges inherent to public budgeting
d.            An overview of the key stakeholders in public budgeting and their respective roles
e.            Budget cycle and stages of budgeting process
●    Financing Approaches in Public Budgeting:
a.            Detailed exploration of different financing methods in public budgeting
b.            The stages of the budget execution process and the role of auditing
c.            The methods for evaluating the effectiveness of different financing approaches
●    Resource Mobilization:
a.            The mechanisms for mobilizing local and external resources for public budgeting
b.            The role of these resources in the overall public financial management system
c.            Techniques and strategies for resource mobilization, including examples and case studies
●    Deficit Financing:
a.            An introduction to deficit financing, its pros and cons
b.            How deficit financing impacts the economy and public financial management
c.            Strategies for managing the risks associated with deficit financing
●    Understanding Taxation Structures:
a.            Various types of taxation structures (e.g., progressive, regressive, proportional) and their characteristics
b.            How different taxation structures impact public budgeting, societal equity, and economic growth
c.            Evaluation methods for assessing the effectiveness and equity of taxation structures
●    Fiscal Responsibility:
a.            The principles of fiscal responsibility in public finance
b.            Strategies for promoting fiscal responsibility within public agencies
c.            Techniques for ensuring efficient and effective use of public resources
●    Medium-Term Budgetary Framework:
a.            The concept, objectives, and benefits of a Medium-Term Budgetary Framework (MTBF)
b.            How to apply an MTBF in a real-world setting, including potential challenges
c.            Measuring the effectiveness of an MTBF
●    Managing Local Level Budgets:
a.            The processes involved in local government budgeting, including budget formulation, execution, and monitoring
b.            Strategies for revenue mobilization at the local government level
c.            Case studies on effective local government budget management
●    Participatory Budgeting:
a.            The concept and benefits of participatory budgeting
b.            The conditions needed for successful participatory budgeting
c.            Case studies of successful participatory budgeting
●    Non-profit Financial Management:
a.            The basics of nonprofit budgeting
b.            Differences between capital and operating budgets in nonprofit organization
c.            Effective grant management techniques and ensuring compliance with funding requirements
d.            Case studies on successful financial management in nonprofit organizations
●    Ethical Considerations in Public Budgeting:
a.            The ethical considerations in public budgeting decisions
b.            The role of public budgeting in promoting fairness and equity in society
c.            Case studies of ethical dilemmas in public budgeting and their resolution.
●    Course Conclusion and Review: Recap of the course, ensuring that the course learning outcomes have been met, and preparing students for final assessment or project.
GOV 611: Project Appraisal and Management
This course is to foster a critical understanding of project appraisal and management so that students can recognize the significance of the discipline in a variety of organizational and functional contexts. This module focuses primarily on the knowledge and skills necessary for managing development projects funded by respective governments and/or international development partners in developing country contexts. Students should develop a critical understanding of the concepts employed in project management at the strategic, systemic, and operational levels, as well as an appreciation of the knowledge and skills required for successful project management. Through this course, it is anticipated that students will not only acquire knowledge pertinent to their master's degree program, but also advanced project management knowledge that will assist them in attaining global professional credentials (CAPM®, PMP®, MCIPS®, PRINCE 2, etc.).
Course Contents:
Introduction to Project Management: Portfolio, program, project, project life cycle, project process & knowledge areas, project supply chain management, public sector development project, PPP projects, success and failure of projects.
Analysis of project life cycle: Identification, preparation, appraisal, approval, implementation & monitoring, evaluation.
Introduction to development project: Types of projects, budgetary allocation for development project, stakeholder analysis, role of development partners, relevance of policies and legislations on planning, GO & NGO project development documents (DPP/TAPP), approval process of the GoB development projects.
Identification of development projects: Front-end planning phase, situation analysis (SWOT, PEST, STEEPLE, problem tree, Objective tree, SMART, etc).
Project feasibility analysis-I: Technical due diligence, financial feasibility assessment, economic feasibility assessment.
Project feasibility analysis-II: Fiduciary assessment; institutional and management feasibility assessment; environmental feasibility assessment, social assessment.
Project procurement and financial management: Year-wise financial and physical plan, project procurement plan, project procurement and ethics, contract management.
Project management techniques- I: WBS, stakeholder analysis, project team management, leadership management, Ghantt chart, CPM, PERT, crashing, fast-tracking.
Project management techniques-II: RACI, resource loading and leveling, project network diagram, risk and challenge analysis.
Project information and technology management: Application of software: Microsoft project, Primavera, ERP systems, e-Gp etc.
Project monitoring, evaluation and closure: Role of project management committee (PIC, PSC, E&M), Progress monitoring report, Mid-term evaluation report, Project Completion Report (PCR), Audit system (both GoB and donor-funded projects), lesson learned.
GOV 612: Public Policy Analysis
Course summary: The course aims to familiarise students with the fundamentals of public policy in three sections: the theories of public policies, the politics of public policymaking, and the praxis of public policy (discussed below). The students will also analyse public policy challenges via case studies and apply their learnings by pursuing a group project on a real world problem of their choice. Furthermore, at the completion of the course, students are expected to have developed some basic familiarity with the skills required to draft well-researched and well-articulated policy memos.
The theories of public policies section: covers What is policy? What rationales underpin public policy? What are the models of public policymaking? What is evidence based policymaking? What are the institutions and actors involved in policymaking?
The politics of policymaking section: Uses case studies to understand the theories of power; new institutionalism; and ideas, including agenda setting, problem definition, and zeitgeist.
The praxis of public policy section: Explains the methods and techniques for analysing policies; and discusses how to find and interpret reliable evidence; and how to structure policy arguments to write a policy memo.
Introduction: Overview of the course contents,  learning outcomes, students’  expectations from the course,  teaching and learning strategies,  teachers’ role
Theory I: What is policy? Definition, cross country examples, challenges
Theory II: What rationales underpin public policy? Efficiency; market failure; state failure
Theory III: What are the models of public policymaking? Policy cycle; multiple streams analysis; advocacy coalition framework; policy networks; policy transfer
Theory IV: What is evidence based policymaking? Rational choice theory and bounded rationality
Theory V: What are the institutions and actors involved in policymaking? Multilevel governance and complexity theory; state actors, private actors, and development partners
The Politics of Policy-Making I: Understanding the theories of power; new institutionalism; and ideas, including agenda setting, problem definition, zeitgeist
The Politics of Policy-Making II: Case study that applies power, institutions, ideas analysis (e.g. targeted vs. universal social protection policies)
The Politics of Policy-Making III: Case study that applies power, institutions, ideas analysis (e.g. food vs. cash transfers policies)
Praxis I: The methods and techniques for analysing policies; cost benefit analysis; decision tree; multi criteria decision analysis
Praxis II: How to find and interpret reliable evidence (positive vs. normative divide, randomised control trials); How to structure policy arguments and write a policy memo
GOV 613: E-governance & IT
Continuation of growth information technology (IT) and in alignment with the Digital Bangladesh movement, this course is intended to explore the new realm of governance, e-governance. It will look into the public policy and service delivery challenges emerging from IT services. Particularly, discussing how information technology increases feedback from citizens and how bureaucrats can learn to adapt. Students will receive the opportunity to learn how technology can and have shaped the structure and functions of governance.
Course content
E-Governance: Definition, concepts and application
E-Governance models (G2C, G2B, G2G, G2E) and frameworks.
ICT infrastructure and applications in governance and development from around the world and in Bangladesh
ICT in Education, E-commerce, E-payment systems and financial inclusion initiatives.
Cyber laws and regulatory perspectives, including cyber-security, Digital data protection and privacy laws
Effective project management through ICT tools
Information systems, decentralization and empowerment of local govt (addressing digital divide issues for inclusive citizen participation and strategizing citizen engagement through e-governance)
Digital Bangladesh: vision, mission, and end goal
Planning public information systems by ensuring equity and inclusivity in e-governance services via data driven decision making and policy formulation.
Future trends in E-Governnance: IR 4 technologies in e-governance – big data, blockchain, artificial intelligence, AI, AR/VR and others
Cluster C: Building Partnerships
GOV 620: Public-Private Partnerships (PPP)
Governments throughout the world are facing shortage of efficient public infrastructure services. This brings the importance of Public Private Partnership (PPP) that seeks to infuse private capital and management efficiencies from private investors and banks for the efficient development of infrastructure at the national and local levels.
The course aims to address issues of PPP concepts, rationale, strategies and PPP structuring. The course will sensitize participants about the importance and scope of the emerging trends in PPP, different models of PPP and train them in the negotiations and regulatory aspects of PPP. It will introduce the participants to:
●    Why do government implementing agencies (IAs) engage in PPP?
●    Why do private sector investors and private banks engage in PPP?
●    How do donors get involved in PPP?
●    What do these forms of collaboration entail?
●    How does PPP differ from sector to sector and even within a sector?
●    What are the common challenges in managing these partnerships?
●    How can you best design, implement, and review a PPP?
●    The history of PPP in Bangladesh, how it has evolved so far and the likely future direction for it.
●    The relevant and important laws, regulations and institutions related to PPP in Bangladesh
●    PPP Case studies in Bangladesh and overseas
This course is designed to educate participants, who may come from the three major PPP contractual stakeholders i.e. government agencies, private sector investors and financial institutions (banks).  The minor stakeholders are varied – donors, advisors/consultants, legal professionals, engineering professionals, financial specialists, environmental specialists, civil society, academia, press and others.  The course will highlight the main ideas that PPPs will build on, the challenges involved in implementing these partnerships, and to explore key questions linked to making these partnerships successful. Overall, this course will provide participants with an overview of key themes that the major stakeholders will encounter when engaging in PPPs.
The course will lay a strong foundation on the historical development of PPP in the country and the institutions involved in it.  Many case studies in the Bangladesh context and overseas will be provided with the objective of keeping the learning process fully interactive and with practical orientation.
The course is designed for professionals involved in project development, execution and financing of PPP projects. This includes:
●    Government officials
●    Bankers
●    Financiers
●    Donors
●    Investors
●    Academicians
●    Bidders for PPP projects
●    Public procurement entities  - under central or local government
●    Project directors / managers of PPP
●    Entrepreneurs
●    Professionals from technical, legal, financial, commercial or environmental disciplines
●    Keen learners from any discipline
Finally, the course will use adult teaching methods, will be fully interactive using a variety of teaching techniques such as power point, whiteboard/electronic smart board (if available), case studies, group work, group discussion, quiz, assignments, projects, role play, exercise and presentation, brainstorming and site visit.
●    Public-Private Partnership — Introduction and Overview
●    Establishing a PPP Framework -Types and models of partnerships - BOT, BOO, others
●    Project Identification and PPP Screening
●    Appraising PPP Projects – importance of financial modelling in a PPP project
●    Structuring and Drafting the Tender and PPP Contract
●    Tendering and Awarding the Contract
●    Managing the Contract – Strategy, Delivery and Commissioning
●    Managing the Contract – Operations and Hand-Back
●    Bangladesh laws, regulations and institutions on PPP
●    PPP case studies – Bangladesh and overseas
GOV 621: Negotiations and Conflict Management
This course aims to expose the students to state of the art concepts of negotiations and conflict management so that they can use those knowledge and skills to real life situations in the government and elsewhere. They will learn to identify different types of conflicts and apply appropriate techniques to tackle them. Students will be provided with hands-on training on negotiations that are pertinent to public policy and development. The specific objectives of this course are (a) to provide the students with an overview of the basic concepts related to negotiations and conflict management, (b) familiarize them with different types of conflict, and various approaches to manage those conflicts, (c) sensitize the students about multiple forms, stages and techniques of negotiations, and (d) prepare them to use the knowledge and skills acquired in this course in their respective workplaces.
●    Negotiation: Its importance and the consequences of ineffective negotiation
●    The concepts of conflict, conflict resolution and the conflict resolution process
●    The key stages of negotiation
●    Understanding and mapping the negotiation environment
●    Understanding the power dynamics and the art of striking the balance
●    The common negation strategies and tactics, soft and hard skills
●    The Thomas-Kilmann Instrument: Collaboration, Competition, Compromise, Accommodation and Avoidance
●    Unsuccessful negotiation, Exit, BATNA and the next steps
●    The root causes of disagreement, and finding a common ground
●    Mechanisms and the process of conflict resolution
●    Dealing with difficult conversations and negotiations
●    Cultural considerations of negotiation strategies
●    Behavioural and personality factors in conflict management and negotiations
●    The use of emotional intelligence (EQ) in negotiations
●    The application of game theory in policymaking and negotiations
●    The political economy of Bangladesh and its implications in negotiations
●    The impacts of global power structure and geopolitics in negotiations
●    International instruments for negotiation
●    Critical issues in the negotiation of foreign aided projects
●    Key issues in trade negotiations
Cluster D: Accountability
GOV 630: Ethics
Credit value: 1.5
Contact hours: Weekly 1.5 Hours (Total 20 Hours)
The main objectives of this course are (a) to familiarize the students with the basic concepts on ethics, (b) provide them with an overview of the current ethical issues, and (c) encourage them to apply this knowledge to examine and improve the prevailing practices in public service and development management.
●    Basic concepts of normative ethics: utilitarianism, Kantian ethics, Aristotelian virtue ethics and Aquinas’s natural law theory, and the essence of metaethics
●    Current issues of practical ethics: abortion, euthanasia, animal rights, genetic testing, cloning, sexual ethics
●    Key ethical considerations in development: the capability approach, and development as the expansion of freedom
●    Development ethics and the global justice
●    Ethical implications of key governance issues: freedom, justice, equal rights, empowerment
●    Business ethics and the role of government
●    Ethics in public service: local and global perspectives
GOV 631: Corruption
By way of taking a dispassionate and diagnostic approach to corruption, the aim of the course is to help students develop a critical outlook toward corruption, understand the incentives and reward mechanisms that lead to corruption and creatively think about reducing corruption. The course will focus on discussions on the conditions that lead to rent seeking in order to identify feasible tools for maximizing value for money in the public sector.
●    Defining corruption and its various forms along with its historical perspective and global prevalence
●    Dimensions and implications of corruption (e.g. petty corruption vs. grand corruption, bureaucratic corruption, political corruption, corporate corruption, judicial corruption, police & law enforcement corruption and corruption in business, civil society, international organizations and donor agencies etc.)
●    Diagnosis and indicators ( e.g. socioeconomic factors, weak governance & institutions, lack of transparency and accountability, cultural and social factors, political influence, economic inequality etc.)
●    Consequences of corruption (Economic implications, social & development impact, erosion of trust in institution, impediments to sustainable development and human rights violation etc.)
●    Preventing corruption at the policy level
●    Preventing corruption at the service delivery level (role of media, technology and digital tools)
●    Motivation, incentives and tackling corruption
●    Autonomous Anti-corruption Commission – myth and reality
Cluster E: Inclusive Citizenship and Innovations
GOV 640: Learning from People: Methods and Innovations
Contact hours: Weekly 3 Hours (Total 40 Hours)
This course aims to introduce students to key concepts, methods and processes of mission driven bureaucracy and public actors, where citizen’s voice and participation is an integral part of public policy. Through first hand field based exercises and case studies, it will help the students to understand how participatory observation works and how the participants derive meaning from their surroundings, and how their meaning influences their behavior.
●    Concepts of Listening: Listening to People
●  The role of qualitative research in capturing insights: Ethical considerations in studying human interactions and concepts of participation for sustainable livelihoods
●  Overview of qualitative research methodologies (ethnography, interviews, case studies, etc.): Data collection techniques, data analysis and triangulation
●  Principles of human-centered design (empathy, ideation, prototyping, testing): Design thinking methodologies for innovation
●    Narrative structures and archetypes: Analyzing and interpreting personal and collective narratives
● Basics of cognitive psychology and behavioral economics: Understanding biases, heuristics, and decision-making processes and applying psychological insights to design and communication strategies
●   Ethnographic Study: Deep dive into ethnographic research: participant observation, cultural immersion, reflexivity and researcher subjectivity in ethnography and analyzing field notes and cultural artifacts
●    User Experience (UX) research and Participatory Action Research
●    Participatory learning: the experience of BRAC and other institutions in Bangladesh and Participatory appraisals
●    Institutional form of participation: the role of development organizations
●    Impact of microcredit in Bangladesh
GOV 641: Gender, Diversity & Governance
The course GOV641: Gender, Diversity and Governance aims to develop an understanding of the nexus between gender, diversity and governance, especially in the context of the Global South. Any development affects the relationship between women and men in a society; thus, it is essential to know the socio-cultural and economic dynamics that influence gender inequalities and disparity based on diversity. The course will introduce the key concepts, issues and practices of ‘gender’, ‘diversity, and ‘governance’. These key concepts will be discussed in relation to development policy of livelihood and economic participation, violence, environment, leadership and voice, and sustainable development goals for promoting inclusive development.
The course also intends to promote critical thinking among students. The students will be expected not to take any concept or approach for granted; rather problematize them to uncover the contestations, contradictions and challenges associated with the discourse of gender, diversity, and governance. The course will adopt an intersectional approach to explore how multiple forms of social stratification (class, gender, ethnicity, race etc.) intersect with each other to cause inequalities in development processes.
●    Introduction to basic concepts and definitions: Gender , Sex, Race, Ethnicity, Disability, Patriarchy, Discrimination, etc.
●    Development Theories and Gendered Approaches to Development
●    Gender analysis
●    Livelihood and economic participation
●    Gender based Violence and Violence against women
●    Gender and Environment
●    Women’s leadership and citizenship: Whose Voice? Whose Choice?
●    Gender and diversity in urban development
●    Achievement and Challenge: Sustainable Development Goals
●    Gender, Diversity, and Governance in Practice
GOV 642: Human Rights & Social Justice
To familiarize the students with the basic ideas of the human rights discourse and to introduce to them the emerging literature on the implications of adopting a rights-based approach to economic and social development. Students will learn about the international legal instruments, treaties, and organizations that form the basis of human rights protection on a global scale.
This will help students learn and engage in local, national and global communications that address critical public health problems in human rights issues. We will address public health challenges like COVID-19 through larger issues like poverty, violence and discrimination. This course will also explore topics such as, labour rights, refugee rights, Climate change and environmental justice, Gender equity, digital privacy and indigenous rights and cultural preservation.
●    The philosophical foundations of the concept of rights and differentiation of the key concepts, such as equality, equity, justice, discrimination, oppression and privilege
●    The historical evolution of human rights and social justice movements, including significant events, documents, and milestones.
●    Theoretical frameworks and approaches, including utilitarianism, feminism/feminist theories of justice, Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), Social Contract Theory, Distributive Justice Theories, Critical Race Theory (CRT) and Critical Theory, Human Development and capability Approach, Intersectionality, Economic Justice, Universal human rights versus cultural relativism and Sen's Theory of Justice as Freedom.
●    The international legal instruments, treaties, and organizations that form the basis of human rights protection on a global scale.
●    Rights and resources: the concept of progressive realization of human rights and The distinctive features of the rights-based approach to development
●    Rights and obligations: accountability of the State and non-State actors
●   Health and Human Rights, including Ethical issues in Medicine and Public Health; Disability Rights and Inclusion (Access to healthcare and Public Health Equity)
●    Labor Rights (e.g. Immigrants’ Rights (Migration, Labor Rights and Remittance; Garment worker’s Rights and labor exploitation; Child Labor and Education Access)
● Refugee Crisis (Especially exploring and analyzing the human rights challenges faced by Rohingya refugees in Bangladesh, including displacement, access to basic services, and legal protections; the role of Bangladesh in providing refuge and the international response to the crisis)
●    Intersectionality and Civic Engagement and Participatory Democracy
●    Climate change and Environmental Justice
●    Gender Equality and Women’s Empowerment
●    Land Rights and Indigenous Communities/Indigenous Rights and Cultural Preservation
●    Privacy, Surveillance and Digital Rights, including Digital Divide and Access to Information
Dissertation
The dissertation for MAGD may be a research paper, a policy note or a systematic review of a selected policy issue. The 9-credit dissertation will be spread out over 3 semesters. In the first semester, students will learn about basic research methods, learning from evidence, and develop a dissertation proposal. In the second semester, students will complete a secondary literature review, data collection (if required), and present preliminary findings to their supervisors. In the last semester, students will write the dissertation and present to a relevant audience (this will include planning and arranging the event).
Facilities and Support
This MAGD program is conducted using the common facilities of the University (e. g. classroom, library, etc).