Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/about/people/shafayat-hossain-chowdhury
Page Title: Shafayat Hossain Chowdhury | BRAC University

Shafayat Hossain Chowdhury | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Shafayat Hossain Chowdhury
Senior Lecturer
BRAC Business School
shafayat.hossain@bracu.ac.bd
Google Scholar
Level: 5, Room: 5A36
Kha-224 Merul Badda
Dhaka 1212. Bangladesh
Mr. Shafayat Hossain Chowdhury
joined BRAC Business School in Spring 2025. Prior to joining BRAC University, he was with the University of Liberal Arts Bangladesh (ULAB). Besides teaching, he served as the coordinator of the Essential Skills Program at ULAB, a flagship year-long initiative designed to enhance fundamental skills for undergraduate students. He was nominated as a Global Mentor by World Marketing Summit Bangladesh in 2021 for their Global Internship Program.
He started his career as a Management Trainee in 2009 with Eastern Bank Limited (EBL), one of the prominent banks in the country, after completing his undergrad from North South University. He served the bank at various capacities ranging from Associate Financial Analyst to Senior Associate Manager and made significant contributions towards the development of consumer credit. Due to his banking experience, he was selected as a resource person for Disseminare Consulting Pvt. (BD) Limited, and conducted several training sessions at BRAC Bank during 2019-2020.
He attained his MSc International Business degree with Merit from Aston University in Birmingham, UK and achieved lifetime membership of “Beta Gamma Sigma,” an international honor society recognizing outstanding scholars from the world’s best business and management programs. He was awarded with the prestigious “Aston Business School Postgraduate Scholarship” to study at Aston University.
International Business
Aston University, Birmingham, UK
Bachelor of Business Administration
North South University, Dhaka, Bangladesh
Ashrafi, D. M.,
Chowdhury, S. H.
, Habiba, W., Chowdhury, S. M. M., Alam, M. S., Zabeen, M., & Sarker, M. A. R. (2024). Rigidity or fluidity? Does variety-seeking vary based on perceived threat during the COVID-19 pandemic?
Sri Lanka Journal of Social Sciences, 46
(2), 197–211.
http://dx.doi.org/10.4038/sljss.v46i02.8436
•    Principles of Marketing
•    Marketing Management
•    International Business
•    Business Strategy
Global Mentor,
Global Internship Program, World Marketing Summit Bangladesh
Lifetime Membership,
Beta Gamma Sigma
, MSc International Business, Aston University, UK
Aston Business
School Postgraduate Scholarship, Aston University, UK
Government Junior Scholarship
, Collegiate School, Bangladesh