Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/about/people/farhana-zahir-cfa-frm
Page Title: Farhana Zahir, CFA, FRM | BRAC University

Farhana Zahir, CFA, FRM | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Farhana Zahir, CFA, FRM
Assistant Professor
BRAC Business School
farhana.zahir@bracu.ac.bd
Level: 5, Room: 5A30
Kha-224 Merul Badda
Dhaka 1212. Bangladesh
Ms. Farhana Zahir
completed her BBA from IBA, DU in 2002. She started her corporate career at Standard Chartered Bank, Bangladesh as a Finance Officer. In 2005, she received the Dean’s scholarship at Boston University, USA, to pursue an MBA in Finance. Farhana then joined Terra Partners Group as a Senior Analyst to assist with the Terra Bangladesh Fund operations. In 2010, she was promoted to Chief Analyst, South Asia, where she led the analysis and due diligence process for portfolio companies in the Worldwide Opportunity Fund (Cayman) Ltd.
Ms. Zahir started her academic career in 2015 as a Lecturer in the Department of Accounting and Finance, North South University. She was promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2017. During her tenure at NSU, she served one term as Director, Career and Placement Center. In 2019, Farhana embarked on a new journey to complete a Master of Science in Data Science Program from City University of New York, USA. During this time, she also served as a consultant to SEAF Bangladesh Ventures to assistant in due diligence and investor relations.
Farhana holds the CFA, FRM and CAIA charters, and is an active member of the CFA Society Bangladesh. She is passionate about integrating technical skills and STEM contents in the finance curriculum to prepare the students for a more Fintech intensive future.
of Science in Data Science, City University of New York (Jan 2019 to May 2021)
of Business Administration (Finance), Boston University (Jul 2005 to Jan 2007)
of Business Administration (Finance), IBA, Dhaka University (Jan 1998 to Mar 2002)
Financial Markets and Institutions
Investment theory
Financial Modelling using Excel
Financial Derivatives
Financial Functions in Excel
Portfolio calculations in Excel
Using Simulations in portfolio management
Introduction to R for Data Visualization
R for Finance
Dean’s Scholarship, Boston University School of Management, 2005.