Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/privacy-policy
Page Title: Privacy Policy | BRAC University

Privacy Policy | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Thank you for visiting BRAC University website. This website is the official website of BRAC University owned and operated by BRAC University. BRAC University is comprised of Institutes, Schools, Departments, Offices, Units and Activities, all of which may have individual representation on the web.  BRAC University does not collect your personal information when you visit one of our websites unless you choose to provide that information to us.  BRAC University does not sell, exchange, or release your personal information to outside parties without your consent. Once we obtain your consent, we consider it valid until revoked by you. This policy may be changed or updated from time to time.
Information
Users may provide  BRAC University with non-personally and personally identifiable information in order to utilize certain services and retrieve information.  BRAC University respect the privacy of its online visitors. Such instances may not be noticeable to the user and include, but are not limited to: filling out surveys, purchasing goods and services, submitting tests, registering for courses, and submitting certain online forms.
BRAC University only gathers personally identifiable data from users, if required,  BRAC University will use such information only to conduct official University business and will disclose it only when such disclosure may be appropriate to comply with applicable law, to enforce  BRAC University’s Visitor Agreement, or to protect the rights, property or the safety of visitors to BRAC University’s websites, the University community or the public.  BRAC University does not sell, trade, or rent users’ personal information to other organizations for commercial purposes.
Distribution of Collected Information
In certain instances, in order to provide information and services, or as required by law,  BRAC University may disseminate non-personally and personally identifiable information to third parties and officials/departments within  BRAC University and Affiliated organization like University Grant Commission (UGC), Ministry of Education, Bangladesh etc..
BRAC University’s websites make use of “cookies,” which are small text files placed on the user’s computer to keep track of information about the user’s browsing on this site. The utilization of cookies allows  BRAC University to enhance a user’s experience by allowing  BRAC University to create tailored web applications. Cookies are not programs that come onto a visitor’s system and damage files.
External Links
BRAC University websites may contain links to other websites owned by third parties as a convenience to the user. If a user decides to use these links, s/he will leave the  BRAC University website.  BRAC University is not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of such websites, and does not make any representations or endorsements about them. If a user decides to leave the website and access any third party site, it will be at the user’s own risk, and users should be aware that  BRAC University’s policies will no longer govern.
Children and Privacy
BRAC University is concerned about protecting children's privacy. We welcome children to learn more about BRAC University and about the issues presented on this website, and we are particularly respectful of the privacy of our young user. We do not collect personally identifiable information from children as well. If a parent or guardian becomes aware that a child under 13 has provided such information to us, s/he should contact us.
Policy Changes
We may, at any time, amend the provisions in this Privacy Policy. Changes to this policy will be reflected by the “Effective Date” as mentioned in the website. If we make any substantial changes in the way we use your personal information, we will notify you by posting an announcement on our website. Your continued use of this web site following the posting of changes to these terms constitutes your acceptance of those changes.
If you have any questions regarding this policy or  BRAC University websites in general, please contact us