Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/about/people/hasan-maksud-chowdhury-phd
Page Title: Hasan Maksud Chowdhury, PhD | BRAC University

Hasan Maksud Chowdhury, PhD | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Hasan Maksud Chowdhury, PhD
Assistant Professor
BRAC Business School
hasan.maksud@bracu.ac.bd
Level: 5, Room: 5A07
Kha-224 Merul Badda
Dhaka 1212. Bangladesh
I hold a B.Sc. in Chemical Engineering from Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET) and an MBA from the Institute of Business Administration (IBA), University of Dhaka.
My professional journey began at BOC Bangladesh Ltd., a multinational organization, where I served for six years in roles including Market Development Manager. I then advanced to Chief Executive Officer and Country Manager at MCL Gas and Chemicals, leading the company for four years.
Following my corporate career, I transitioned into academia, joining the Faculty of Business Administration at American International University–Bangladesh (AIUB), where I taught for a decade. In September 2015, I moved to BRAC Business School, BRAC University, where I continue to contribute to teaching, research, and academic leadership.
Alongside my academic career, I pursued and completed a Ph.D. at Universiti Tun Abdul Razak, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, further strengthening my expertise in business and management.
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD
), Universiti Tun Abdul Razak, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Master of Business Administration (MBA)
, Institute of Business Administration (IBA), University of Dhaka
B. Sc. In Chemical Engineering
, Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET)
Chowdhury, H. M.
, & Khan, R. Y. (2025). Operational efficiency of CapEx procurement: The impact of lead time and requisition quantity on delivery performance.
International Journal of Supply Chain Management, 14
Uddin, M. R.,
, & Mamtaz, A. F. B. (2025). Evaluating supply chain transformation of passenger vehicle industry towards manufacturing in Bangladesh.
https://doi.org/10.59160/ijscm.v14i1.6289
, Habib, M. M., & Sidin, S. M. (2024). Employing electronic technology in the organic supply chain to boost organic business growth.
International Supply Chain Technology Journal, 10
https://doi.org/10.20545/isctj.v10i1.324
Chowdhury, H. M.,
Habib, M. M., & Sidin, S. M. (2023). Influence of dynamics of actors and information on the organic supply chain.
International Journal of Supply Chain Management, 12
(5), 1–12.
https://doi.org/10.59160/ijscm.v12i5.6208
Chowdhury, M. H. M.
(2022). The influences of intermediaries and supermarkets on the supply chain of organic products.
UniRazak Journal of Science, Economics and Business Management, 5
Kassim, E. S., Hairuddin, H.,
Chowdhury, M. H. M
., Al-Din, Z. H. M., & Azhar, N. S. N. (2020). Digital competencies among Generation Z: Comparison between countries.
International Journal of Advanced Science and Technology, 29
(10S), 559–571.
Zerin, S. T., &
(2019). Distribution system of ACI rice seed: An agribusiness model in Bangladesh.
British Journal of Marketing Studies, 7
(2017). Determining impact of actors and factors of supply chain on the consumer’s price of vegetables in Dhaka city.
International Journal of Supply Chain Management
(3), 71–81. Retrieved from
https://ojs.excelingtech.co.uk/index.php/IJSCM/article/view/1572/914
(2015). Drivers of vegetables supply chain in Bangladesh.
(2014). Factors of the supply chain of vegetables those increase the cost of the consumers.
The AIUB Journal of Business and Economics (AJBE)
(2012). Cold chain business in Bangladesh to enhance the economic growth of the country.
(3), 54–62. Retrieved from
https://ojs.excelingtech.co.uk/index.php/IJSCM/article/view/649
(2007). Effect on GDP by changing the conventional shrimp freezing process to LN IQF.
Assistant Professor, BRAC Business School, BRAC University, September 2015 to date.
Assistant Professor, Faculty of Business Administration, American International University Bangladesh, August 2005 to August 2015.
Chief Executive Officer, MCL Gas and Chemicals (BD), From August 2001 to July 2005
(MCL is a global company engaged in the business of consumer goods, special gases, chemicals, and abrasive)
Market Development Manager, BOC Bangladesh Ltd., From January 1999 to July 2001
Marketing & Sales Officer, BOC Bangladesh Ltd., From October 1995 to December 1998
(BOC is a multinational company engaged in the business of industrial gases, welding electrodes, gas and welding appliances, and health care in more than sixty countries.)
Graduate Courses:
Supply Chain Management, Operations Management, Total Quality Management, Project Management, Decision Models, Managing Service Operations, Analytical Technique for Decision Making, Managing Business Operations, Revenue Management, Business Statistics, Operations Research
Undergraduate Courses:
Supply Chain Management, Operations Research, Operations Management, Inventory Management, Simulation and Optimization, Total Quality Management, Managerial Decision Analysis, Project Management, Product Strategy and Management, Revenue Management, Managerial Forecasting, Seminar in Operations Management, Location Theory and Management, Global Operations Management, Quantitative Business Analysis, Methods of Quality Control, Business Mathematics, Business Statistics, Operations Strategy for Global Competition, Engineering Management, Organization & Game Theory, Business Strategy
Organized, Coordinated and participated around 20 conferences, seminars and workshops
Received best innovative management award from BOC for implementing cryogenics shrimp freezing process in Bangladesh
•    Institution of Engineers Bangladesh
•    International Association of Chemical Engineers
•    IBA Club