Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/academics/schools-and-departments/school-life-sciences/department-microbiology
Page Title: Department of Microbiology | BRAC University

Department of Microbiology | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Welcome from Department Chairperson
To become a leader in microbiology education and innovation for the betterment of lives and the environment.
Excellence in Education, Research and Innovation:
to offer a comprehensive, up-to-date curriculum that enables the acquisition of in-depth knowledge in microbiology and related fields and its translation into practical applications.
Collaboration and Interdisciplinary Partnerships:
to promote national and international collaboration to foster interdisciplinary academic growth and research excellence.
Communication and Leadership:
to equip students with strong leadership and communication skills for a sustainable and successful career.
Values and Compassion:
to ensure a learning environment in which students, faculty, and staff cultivate strong human values and empathy.
Program Offered
Bachelor of Science in Microbiology (BSMIC)
The Bachelor of Science in Microbiology is a 4-year program designed to equip students with theoretical knowledge and practical skills in both basic and applied microbiology.
•    Total Credit Requirement:
136 - 146 Credits
•    Duration:
4 Years (12 Semesters)
•    Admission Requirement:
candidates must have Biology, Chemistry, Physics, and Mathematics in their HSC or equivalent examinations.
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
Upon completion of the Bachelor of Science in Microbiology, graduates are expected to achieve the following objectives:
•    Knowledge: utilize the acquired knowledge and skills to excel in the workplace.
•    Adaptability: adapt to the fast-paced and competitive fields of science through continuous learning and effective communication.
•    Integrity: exhibit commitment towards sustainable development for the advancement of society by following professional and ethical standards.
•    Leadership: perform in leading positions by implementing effective collaboration and communication capabilities.
Career Prospects
Microbiologists play pivotal roles in a wide variety of sectors. Graduates of this program are prepared for careers in:
•    Education sectors:
working in academia in teaching and research
•    Biomedical Sciences:
working in research and laboratory settings.
•    Public Health:
monitoring, surveillance, and prevention of infectious diseases within communities.
•    Pharmaceutical Industry:
roles in research and development (R&D), manufacturing, quality control (QC), and quality assurance (QA).
•    Food Industry:
ensuring safety and quality in the food and beverage industries.
Faculty and Research Staff
Request for Information