Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/avilable-program/pgdmaster-education-educational-leadership-and-school-improvement-med
Page Title: PGD/Master of Education in Educational Leadership and School Improvement (MED) | BRAC University

PGD/Master of Education in Educational Leadership and School Improvement (MED) | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
PGD/Master of Education in Educational Leadership and School Improvement (MED)
Program Overview
The Master of Education in Educational Leadership and School Improvement programme offered by the BRAC IED is designed to develop the skills and capacities of students as education leaders and managers of tomorrow. The programme works towards enhancing the capacity of individuals who are interested in working in the multifaceted field of education. We focus on developing leadership, management, analytical and problem-solving skills, introducing participants to the world of academia and research. The programme is led by a team of highly qualified faculty members comprising researchers, curriculum developers, educationists and resource professionals of national and global reputation. After successful completion of the programme, graduates will be qualified for a career within the field of education and development. They can choose to embark on their careers as academics, researchers, specialized professionals in government and non-government organizations, consultants, etc.
Program Highlights
Enrollment opportunity without having a Bachelor of Education (B.Ed.) degree or taking any additional preparatory courses|
Allows students to participate in a blended modality which increases access and offers more convenient and flexible study options
opportunity to share the classroom and network with diverse educational professionals and guest lecturers from renowned international universities
Field visits and practical application of lessons alongside theoretical discussions
Learning Management System (LMS) for content exchange, online forum, quiz, customizable course interface, etc
Unlimited access to online resources, including journals, research papers, and dissertations
Career Opportunities
This research-based program will complement participants’ academic training and allow them to acquire knowledge and practical skills to proceed toward their respective career goals across a wide range of sectors including, for example, academia, research, global and local NGOs, government agencies, etc.
“The M.Ed. program has likely advanced my career by providing deeper knowledge of Bangladesh’s education system, policy and good practices. Additionally, the program has given me the chance to network with people in the education sector, which has helped me create a solid network of connections that will be able to assist me and provide resources for my future." -- Md. Towhidur Rahman, National Program Officer, ILO Bangladesh
Placement and Further Study Opportunities
With a reputation for academic excellence and commitment to student success, this program provides a strong foundation for a fruitful career. Upon successful completion of the degree, the BIED graduates have a wealth of employment opportunities. The university focuses on the development of well-rounded students with a strong foundation in their chosen fields and its connections to a broad network of employers give graduates a competitive edge in the job market. Graduates are in demand for employment in prominent learning organizations. Some other examples of the employers are given below:
Australian High Commission
Save the Children
Aga Khan Academy
BIED students have continued their academic pursuits at esteemed institutions, including:
• University College London
• Vanderbilt University
• Penn State University
• University of Alberta.
Course-based Program Structure
All students will have to enroll in the postgraduate diploma (PGD) course. Students meeting qualifying requirements will complete a thesis to receive M.Ed. degree. The M.Ed. and PGD degrees are offered as a joint program. After completing the core program of ten courses, students can choose to either complete M.Ed. or take the PGD. Ten core courses for 27 credits are an essential requirement for both M.Ed. and PGD students. To obtain the M.Ed. degree, a participant has to undertake an additional 9-credit master’s thesis, thereby completing 36 credits in total. Bifurcation of students into M.Ed. and PGD groups will be based on the students’ preference. The duration of the PGD program is 18 months, and the duration of the M.Ed. is 24 months. There is also a one-year customized PGD/ M.Ed. program.
Course No. Credit Course Title PGD M.Ed.
EDU 5012-credit Educational Theories and Practices: A critique √ √
EDU 502 2-credit Leading Improvements in Education: Ongoing Work in Bangladesh √ √
EDU 503 3-credit Creating Learning Organizations: Leadership, Planning and Management √ √
EDU 504 4-credit Research Methods 1: Reading Research and Writing Reports √ √
EDU 505 2-credit Principles of Curriculum and the Development of Learning Materials √ √
EDU 506 3-credit Leaders as Learners: Leading People in Educational Institutions √ √
EDU 507 2-credit Leaders as Learners: How Children and Adults Learn √ √
EDU 508 3-credit Educational Measurement and Evaluation √ √
EDU 509 3-credit Whole School Improvement Approach: How Can We Make It Work? √ √
EDU 602 3-credit Research Methods 2: Planning and Preparing Research √ √
EDU 603 9-credit Master’s Thesis × √
Total credits to be completed
Course Details
M.Ed. Course Details:
EDU 501: Educational Theories and Practices: A Critique - 2 Credits
This course will introduce the participants to key theories and concepts in education and explore the underlying assumptions and key features of different educational approaches and practices. It will engage them in critical analysis of present educational practices in different contexts, from both a national and global perspective. There will be a focus on the relationship between education and development. Learning theories and theorists, formal and non-formal educational approaches, critiques of schooling, and contemporary issues in education will be other important focus areas of this course. Alternative theories and models of education and their applications in developing country contexts will be particularly explored.
EDU 502: Leading Improvements in Education: Ongoing Work in Bangladesh - 2 Credits
This course will engage the participants in critical analysis of different policies and initiatives taken by the government and non-government actors to improve the quality of education in primary and secondary education in Bangladesh. It will support students to understand and apply different frameworks and tools for policy and context analysis and examine different quality improvement projects and programs.
EDU 503: Creating Learning Organizations: Leadership, Planning and Management - 3 Credits
In challenging times, educational organizations need to be flexible and innovative, able to adapt to meet the needs of students and community stakeholders.  This course will enable participants to understand how to create effective organizational processes and improve performance by using appropriate leadership styles, communication, and innovative organizational change strategies. This course will enable educational leaders to be able to develop high levels of productivity and performance from the people they guide and build the capacity of their organizations to become learning organizations.
EDU 504: Reading Methods 1: Reading Research and Writing Reports - 4 Credits
This is an introductory course on different research approaches such as qualitative, quantitative and mixed methods. Students will learn and practice different research designs, sampling, ethics, and methods and an analysis procedure for these different research approaches.
EDU 505: Principles of Curriculum and the Development of Learning Materials - 2 Credits
This course intends to develop the participants’ basic understanding of curriculum theories and models. Issues and debates in the field of curriculum and learning materials are also intended to be discussed with an aim to equip them with the necessary knowledge, skills, and attitude to be able to examine, explore and study curricular and pedagogic processes critically and ensure effective implementation of the curriculum with a fuller understanding of the nature, form and contents of the curriculum.
EDU 506: Leaders as Learners: Leading People in Educational Institutions - 3 Credits
To sustain and improve educational systems, leaders are needed who can effectively manage schools and support the success of all learners.  The course will help participants understand school management processes and develop skills for engaging teachers and community stakeholders productively in collective decision-making, mentoring, and progress monitoring.
EDU 507: Leaders as Learners: How Children and Adults Learn - 2 Credits
This course will enable participants to develop an in-depth understanding of learning and engage with new ideas about what shapes children’s and adults’ learning and development. The course will encourage participants to compare different theoretical orientations on learning, explore their understanding of how learning takes place, and apply theories and research to enrich teaching, training and management practices.
EDU 508: Educational Measurement and Evaluation - 3 Credits
This course will help the participants understand the role and process of educational measurement, assessment and evaluation, particularly in the context of educational leadership. It will focus on classroom assessment tools and techniques, including alternative assessment techniques, and how to use these techniques to improve learning. The course will help develop insights into the major educational assessment issues in Bangladesh and their potential solutions.
EDU 509: Whole School Improvement Approach: How Can We Make It Work? - 3 Credits
The course will explore various strategies, frameworks and models of educational reforms and school improvement over the past decades, in both the developed and the developing country contexts. This will be based on research and processes of school reforms, improvements and innovations to address key issues and problems faced by the education system in different contexts. Multiple sources of whole school improvement will be considered including those in both formal and non-formal school settings. Attention will also be given to the role of improvement science as a process for identifying improvement strategies. Understanding the major components and players of school improvement and how they influence each other, will help participants understand how best to bring about whole school improvement and enhance community engagement and trust. The course will focus on Bangladesh and the international context. We will analyze the issues and challenges the education system is grappling with, the reforms and policy initiatives undertaken, and how whole school improvement can work effectively.
EDU 602: Research Methods 2: Planning and Preparing Research - 3 Credits
This course is designed to guide the participants to develop a research proposal for their M.Ed. thesis. The course aims to develop participants’ understanding and skills in planning and preparing research. During this course, students will be guided in the various steps or stages of developing their research proposal: identifying their research topic, formulating research questions, selecting appropriate methodology and developing a research plan. The course will result in the development of a draft research proposal, which may later be reviewed and developed as the M.Ed. Thesis Proposal under the guidance of a Thesis Committee.
EDU 603: Master’s Thesis - 9 Credits
This will provide the participants the opportunity to conduct independent research and write a dissertation. As part of the requirements for the M.Ed. degree, the candidates will conduct research based on a research
Facilities and Support
BRAC University provides a range of facilities to support its students in their academic and personal pursuits. The library offers a vast collection of books, journals and other resources to support students’ learning and research needs. The academic skill support center provides guidance on various study skills, including effective reading and note-taking strategies, exam preparation, and time management. The tech-support team ensures that students have access to the latest technology and resources and to enhance their learning experience. The well-being and mental health support center provides a range of services to help students maintain their emotional and mental well-being, including counseling, workshops, and support groups. With these facilities and services, BRAC University empowers its students to achieve their full potential.