Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/campus-life/student-affairs/ocsar
Page Title: Office of Career Services and Alumni Relations (OCSAR) | BRAC University

Office of Career Services and Alumni Relations (OCSAR) | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
●  Professional Skills Development Program (PSDP)
●  Internship placement
●  Job placement
●  On-Campus recruitment session
●  Career and networking session
●  Career fair
●  Career counseling
●  Help furnishing CV & cover letter
Professional Skills Development Program (PSDP)
Students can prepare themselves for the “world of work” before starting their careers through the Professional Skills Development Program (PSDP). PSDP is a unique, intensive course dedicated to preparing the final year students as it is designed considering the required soft skills employers value the most and the changing workplace practices.
Upon completion of the program, the participant will receive a certificate & opportunity to refurnish their CV availing individual care. It also provides students the opportunity to connect with employers as sessions are conducted by the HR personnel of different renowned organizations.
Key Contents:
●  CV & cover letter writing
●  Winning interviews
●  Effective workplace communication
●  Ethics & morality
●  Presentation skills
Internship Placement
Students can secure their dream internships through OCSAR as it regularly circulates various internship opportunities on the OCSAR website (
http://ocsar.bracu.ac.bd/
). Students can create their OCSAR account, get registered for internship and then apply for the internship opportunities through the job portal of the OCSAR website directly.
OCSAR website
Job Placement
Explore various career opportunities and apply through the job portal of OCSAR website (
). Students can create their OCSAR account and apply for the available jobs through the portal directly. OCSAR has catered to various organizations and provided them with suitable candidates for relevant positions and has been connecting employers with the students and vice versa through various job placements.
On-Campus Recruitment Session
Career and Networking Session
Students can visit and talk to the OCSAR team in order to get assistance regarding career choices, job search and etc. This counseling is not restricted to career services and academic help, rather goes beyond to help students explore their strengths, interests, weakness and other transferable skills.
Career Fair
Writing CV and Cover Letter
Latest News and Events
BRAC University Career Fair 2025 draws over 60 renowned employers
December 9th, 2025
BRAC University hosts on-campus interview session with Bangladesh Finance PLC
November 9th, 2025
BRAC University organized a roadshow of Marico Bangladesh- “Over The Wall”
October 29th, 2025
Request for Information