Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/academics/schools-and-departments/james-p-grant-school-public-health
Page Title: James P Grant School of Public Health | BRAC University

James P Grant School of Public Health | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
BRAC James P Grant School of Public Health
BRAC James P Grant School of Public Health (JPGSPH), BRAC University was founded in 2004 in Dhaka, Bangladesh to address the unmet public health challenges particular to Asia, Africa and South America. The school's institutional partner is BRAC, the world’s largest NGO, reaching over 100 million people in Bangladesh and working in 11 countries in Africa and Asia. It is at BRAC University, a premier higher education and development research institution. The school offers unparalleled real-life, community-centric teaching, learning and research experiences on critical and emerging national and global public health challenges.
BRAC JPGSPH employs an interdisciplinary integration of Education, Training, Research and Advocacy to effectively address diverse health realities affecting disadvantaged communities.
The School offers a 1-year intensive, community-immersive, transformative Master of Public Health (MPH) programme. Since its inception, 492 students from a diverse academic and professional background representing 30 countries in South Asia, Southeast Asia, Africa, Australia, North and South Americas, and Europe have graduated from JPGSPH. Graduating students have moved on to work for their respective governments, national and international NGOs and with various donor and UN agencies. Additionally, universities and research organisations have also employed a large number of our Masters of Public Health graduates. The School also boasts 21 national and international faculties who are leaders in their fields of expertise. Read more about our MPH programme
The School offers training on various aspects of public health, gender, sexual and reproductive health, and research under the Centre for Professional Skills Development in Public Health (CPSD). Since its inception, the School has offered over 100 short courses and seminars, and trained over 5300 public health and development professionals.
To date, the School has conducted over 90 research projects under its 5 Centres of Excellence with over 75 local and global partners. Over 550 articles have been published in journals, books and chapters since the School’s inception. Between 2016-2018 the BRAC JPGSPH has conducted 65 research projects and published 87 journals, articles and papers. Learn more about our 5 Centres of Excellence and our research
Our Centres of Excellence are dedicated towards utilizing research evidence towards advocacy platforms and policy. To date the School has conducted over 200 advocacy based events to ensure that communities, practitioners, policymakers, government and international institutions learn from and can translate research findings to improve public health outcomes for disadvantaged groups.
Latest News and Events
Women’s psychosocial empowerment can influence food security: BRAC JPGSPH
December 18th, 2025
JPGSPH Hosts 'MPH Open House 2025' to Inspire Future Public Health Leaders
July 17th, 2025
Professor Sabina Faiz Rashid appointed as a member of the Research Advisory Group of FCDO, UK
April 22nd, 2024
Request for Information