Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/about/people/nadia-afroze-disha
Page Title: Nadia Afroze Disha | BRAC University

Nadia Afroze Disha | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Nadia Afroze Disha
BRAC Business School
afroze.disha@bracu.ac.bd
Kha-224 Merul Badda
Dhaka 1212. Bangladesh
is an individual with a deep passion for the academic world. She holds a Master's in Business Administration with a major in Human Resources and a minor in Marketing as well as a Bachelor's in Business Administration with a major in Marketing and a minor in HR. She did both her BBA and MBA from the prestigious Institute of Business Administration (IBA), University of Dhaka. During the academic year of 2021-2022, she achieved the highest CGPA (3.97 out of 4.00) in all of IBA, earning a place on the Director's Honor List and being honored with the A.F.M. Shamsur Rahman Gold Medal as the Valedictorian of her MBA batch. In her earlier years, she secured the 7th position in Dhaka Board in SSC examinations.
Her dedication to research has resulted in three significant publications, one on the international stage and two on a national level. In the international publication, titled "Social Media Marketing and Consumer Buying Behavior: A Literature Review," published in the European Journal of Business and Management, she had the honor of serving as the first author. Her national publications include "Exploring consumer behavior for app-based food delivery in Bangladesh during COVID-19," published in the Bangladesh Journal of Integrated Thoughts, and "Role of Facebook in Empowering the Female Entrepreneurs: An Empirical Study on Bangladesh," featured in the Journal of Business Administration (the journal published by IBA, University of Dhaka).
Throughout her professional career so far, Disha has worn multiple hats. Her professional journey includes a Research Associate position at Northern University Bangladesh where she collaborated with the legendary Professor Dr. Philip Kotler on projects like the World Marketing Summit 2022 and the textbook "Essentials of Modern Marketing." She also briefly served as an Adjunct Faculty member at Northern University Bangladesh.
Currently, Disha serves as a Lecturer at BRAC Business School of BRAC University where she intends to dedicate her efforts to making a lasting impact on her students’ lives as well as on the academic community of BBS and BRACU.
of Business Administration
Institute of Business Administration, University of Dhaka
: Marketing
Valedictorian
Relevant Courses:
Learning and Development, Performance Management, Compensation Management, HR Planning, Research Methodology, Business Analytics, IMC, Business Strategy
: Marketing,
Brand Management, Consumer Behavior, International Marketing, Selling and Salesmanship, Service Marketing, IMC, Training and Development, Compensation Management, Business Strategy
Higher Secondary Certificate
Viqarunnisa Noon College
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Concentration: Science
Secondary School Certificate
Ideal School and College
Mohinur Akter, &
Disha, N. A.
(2021). Exploring consumer behavior for App-based food delivery in Bangladesh during COVID-19.
Bangladesh Journal of Integrated Thoughts
https://doi.org/10.52805/bjit.v17i1.188
Bhattacharjee, S., &
(2020). Role of facebook in empowering the female entrepreneurs : An empirical study on Bangladesh.
Journal of Business Administration
(1), 75–93.
BRAC University
January 2024 - Present
Teaching Assistant
Institute of Business Administration University of Dhaka
January 2020 - December 2023
Most Significant Activities/Accomplishments:
Assisted multiple teachers in their Marketing and HR courses including Principles of Marketing, Strategic Marketing, Principles of Management, Ethics and Leadership, International Marketing, Global Business Environment, and so on
Assisted the primary teachers in managing classes of around 500 students in total
Research Assistant
Assisted faculties with research on consumer behavior, social media marketing, emotional intelligence (EI), sexual harassment at workplace, green HRM, workplace diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI), and so forth
Research Associate
Northern University Bangladesh
January 2022 – December 2023
Worked closely with Professor Philip Kotler, Father of Modern Marketing, and his team at Kotler Impact Inc. on several projects including World Marketing Summit 2022, Essentials of Modern Marketing (EOMM), Modern Marketing Conclave 2023, Bangladesh Institute of Modern Marketing (BIMM), and so on
Helped develop a chapter and a case study on the IT sector of Bangladesh for a recently launched marketing textbook "Essentials of Modern Marketing (EOMM)" coauthored by Professor Philip Kotler and Professor Yousuf Abdullah
Adjunct Faculty
September 2023 - December 2023
Taught the course "Principles of Marketing" to a class of 50 undergraduate students for a short period of time, providing a solid foundation in marketing principles, strategies, and concepts
Lead, Content Development
World Marketing Summit Bangladesh
March 2022 - October 2023
Worked closely with Professor Philip Kotler and his team at Kotler Impact Inc. on World Marketing Summit 2022 and 2023
Prepared speeches for several government dignitaries including Sheikh Hasina, the Honorable Prime Minister of Bangladesh, Dr. Dipu Moni, former Minister of Education, and Dr. Moshiur Rahman, Economic Affairs Advisor to the Prime Minister of Bangladesh who participated in World Marketing Summit 2022
Research Coordinator
Bangladesh Institute of Modern Marketing (BIMM)
Led a team of 14 Young Leaders for the projects of World Marketing Summit 2023, Essentials of Modern Marketing (EOMM), Bangladesh Institute of Modern Marketing (BIMM), Modern Marketing Essence event, and so on
Worked as an Editor of the bi-monthly newsletter of BIMM
Worked on the research team created for the upcoming journal of BIMM and overseen its development with the support of interns
BUS102 | Business - Basics, Ethics and Environment
MGT213 | Management Practices and Organizational Behavior
MGT301 | Human Resource Management
International Conference on Social Media and Cloud Computing (ICSMCC-23)
: 26 April 2023
: Dubai, UAE
Presented the paper on "Social Media Marketing and Consumer Buying Behavior: A Literature Review."
IBA MBA Valedictorian - A.F.M. Shamsur Rahman Gold Medalist
A.F.M. Shamsur Rahman Gold Medal
of MBA 62D batch of IBA, University of Dhaka
Director's Honor List 2021
Director’s Honor List
for achieving a prestigious CGPA in the academic year of 2021-2022
Achiever of the Highest CGPA
achiever of the highest CGPA in all of IBA
, University of Dhaka in the academic year of 2021-2022
Scholarship Award in HSC
Was awarded a
scholarship
due to brilliant result in the Higher Secondary Certificate examination
Prestigious Board Rank and Scholarship Award in SSC
position in Dhaka board and was awarded a
merit scholarship
in Secondary School Certificate examination