Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/about/people/mr-zaheed-husein-mohammad-al-din
Page Title: Mr. Zaheed Husein Mohammad Al-Din | BRAC University

Mr. Zaheed Husein Mohammad Al-Din | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Mr. Zaheed Husein Mohammad Al-Din
Senior Lecturer
BRAC Business School
zaheed.husein@bracu.ac.bd
Kha-224 Merul Badda
Dhaka 1212. Bangladesh
I am an enthusiastic professional who has a passion in the field of Human Resources Management. I enjoy teaching and learning from others. With a number of years of experience in the corporate arena in the HR Function I believe that I can contribute towards the development of HR.
(on descending order)
Area of   study
Concentration/ Major
Year of Pass
Name of Institution
Division/    Class/CGPA
Human Resources
IBA, University of Dhaka
Post Graduate
Association of Business Practitioners, UK
Higher Secondary
Edexcel, London Board of Examination
Conferences
Al-Din, Z. H. M.
(2015). Economic impact of the telecommunication industry on Bangladesh. In
Third International Conference on Advances In Social Science, Management and Human Behaviour - SMHB 2015
(pp. 52–55). Zurich, Switzerland: Institute of Research Engineers and Doctors.
https://www.seekdl.org/conferences/paper/details/6634.html
Shamsi, T., &
(2015). Lifestyle of Bangladeshi workers in Maldives. In
13th Asian Business Research Conference
. Dhaka, Bangladesh: World Business Institute.
(2014). Knowledge of health and hygiene issues of household waste collectors in a certain part of Mirpur area in Dhaka, Bangladesh. In
AIUB 1st Conference for Young Public Health Professionals
. Dhaka, Bangladesh: AIUB.
Served as the MBA Program Coordinator for 14 months in Green Business School.
Strategic Human Resource Management, Conflict Management, Compensation Management, Fundamentals of Human Resources Manager, Business Communication
Presented paper in the 13
Asian Business Research Conference
Achieved ‘Certificate of Excellence’ from The Daily Star for achieving 3 A grades in A’ level examinations. Achieved highest marks in Physics.
Achieved ‘Certificate of Excellence’ from The Daily Star and ‘Aptech Scholarship’ from Aptech for achieving 10 A grades in O’ level examinations.
Quantum Blood Donation Foundation