Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/avilable-program/master-development-studies-mds
Page Title: Master of Development Studies (MDS) | BRAC University

Master of Development Studies (MDS) | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Master of Development Studies (MDS)
Program Overview
The Master of Development Studies (MDS) at BRAC Institute of Governance and Development (BIGD) of BRAC University is a pioneering development studies program in Bangladesh. MDS is a praxis-focused program with an equal emphasis on developing a strong theoretical understanding, learning from the real world and building practical skills so that the graduates are able to connect theory with practice and design and implement research-based policies and programs that work. The MDS faculty members comprise some of the finest Bangladeshi development scholars from home and abroad.
The 21st century world is profoundly shaped by the disruptive forces of globalization, urbanization, climate change and technological transformation. In this world, the development puzzle can only be solved from a multidisciplinary angle, which is a core MDS feature.
The BIGD enriches the MDS curriculum by bringing in the practical know-how of using research for effective development, and using its strategic relationship with BRAC, the unique “BRAC experience” of achieving development excellence.
Program Highlights
A two-year program (45 credits) that focuses on providing students with a solid grounding in the theoretical and empirical aspects of development.
The program offers a truly interdisciplinary approach to development, covering topics such as poverty, sustainable development, gender and governance.
The program has a strong research focus, a unique feature of MDS at BIGD, with courses on both theories and quantitative and qualitative research methods. It offers a dissertation track, which allows students to gain practical research experience under the close supervision of faculty members.
Graduates of the MDS program have gone on to work in organizations such as the World Bank, the United Nations Development Programme, and international NGOs, as well as in research and academia.
The students will be part of the privileged MDS network -- influential development scholars as faculty members and the strong alumni -- with many in leadership positions in national and international institutions.
Students will have access to BRAC University's state-of-the-art facilities including computer labs, library and research centers.
Career Opportunities
MDS is for those who want to be the change agents in the pursuit of a just and prosperous world. The program is designed for both fresh graduates aspiring to kickstart their career in the development sector and development professionals who want to transform their skills and
knowledge for becoming more effective and advancing their career. MDS is also an apt choice for young bureaucrats motivated to make an impact in public service and private sector professionals with a strong social mandate.
MDS provides the students with a practical set of skills, which are relevant to not just the traditional development sector, but also a wide variety of career choices such as social business, policymaking, advocacy, consulting, teaching and development research. Graduates have gone on to work in Bangladesh and beyond with top NGOs, multilateral and bilateral organizations, as well as governments and the private sector.
The MDS program allowed learning about current trends in the development sector and deepened understanding of issues that are particularly relevant to the Bangladesh development context. “The rich faculty and diverse peer group enhanced my experience in MDS even further.” -- alumni Tania Sharmin
“MDS has been an invaluable learning experience for me. As a proud member of Bangladesh Police, I am directly serving the people of this country, and MDS has provided me with a thorough understanding of the real issues of the people I serve.” -- alumni Shorif Mostafiur Rahman, a police inspector
Placement and Further Study Opportunities
The Master of Development Studies (MDS) program at BRAC University provides students with a range of opportunities for placements and further studies after completing the program.
The MDS students can apply for internship and short-term placements, which are frequently advertised on the BIGD website. Students and fresh graduates can also apply for the Young Researchers Fellowship (YRF) program of BIGD, which provides an intensive theoretical and hands-on training on development research to aspiring young researchers.
In terms of further studies, students have the option to pursue advanced studies in development-related fields. Many MDS graduates have gone on to do their second masters and PhD studies in prestigious international universities.
Course-based Program Structure
The Master of Development Studies (MDS) program at BRAC University is a two-year, course-based program. The program is designed to provide students with a solid grounding in the theoretical and empirical aspects of development, and to equip them with the necessary skills to critically analyze and design development interventions.
The first year of the program is focused on providing students with a broad understanding of the key concepts, theories, and debates in development studies. In the second year of the program, students have the opportunity to specialize in specific areas of development studies. They will have the option to choose from elective courses that explore specific development issues. The elective courses can be found in the course curriculum for MDS.
In addition to the core and elective courses, students will also be required to complete a research project and an internship.
Course Details
Course Curriculum
MDS students are required to achieve a total of 45 credits to graduate.
Foundation Courses (9 credits)
DEV 300: Economics and Development
This course aims to build a solid understanding of basic economic principles and the methodology of how economists analyse problems. The course sets out to explain how a modern economy functions and to introduce the students to the major economic problems.
DEV 301: Fundamentals of Social Sciences I: Sociology and Anthropology of Development
The objective of the course is to enable students to critically comprehend the structure and function of the society, and to make them aware of the existence of diversity in social organisation and culture. It also aims to introduce students to civilisation, sociology, culture economics and politics, tracing them through the evolutionary stages and outlining their impact on society.
DEV 302: Fundamentals of Social Sciences, II: Politics, Political Economy and Government in Bangladesh
The course aims at acquainting the students with the political systems and processes with special reference to Bangladesh. The objective of this course is to help students know the basics of political philosophy as well as political economy and government in Bangladesh from a developmental perspective. This course also aims at encouraging critical thinking, analytical skills, knowledge enrichment, and problem-solving capabilities of the students. The successful completion of the course will help the students become successful leaders, administrators and managers in the field of development.
Core Courses (18 credits)
DEV 501: Development Perspectives
This course provides an overview of development theories and concepts. It aims to elucidate diverse meanings of the word ‘development’ and to explain alternative theories of why how and how development takes place in a given society or fails to do so.
DEV 502: Poverty: Concept, Measurement and Policy
The objective of this course is two-fold: (a) to apprise the students of the conceptual framework underlying the current discussions on poverty, and to (b) introduce some of the issues related to its measurement.
DEV 503: Global Dimensions of Development
The objective of this course is to examine the channels through which global forces shape national efforts at development. In particular, the course aims to acquaint students with the major debates surrounding the role of global forces in creating opportunities as well as constraints for national development.
DEV 504: Rural Development
This course will investigate various dimensions of rural development, bearing in mind the relationship between rural and non-rural spheres. Illustrations will be drawn mainly from Bangladesh.
DEV 505: Gender and Development
The objective of this course is three-fold: (a) to apprise of the students of the facts and theories about gender discrimination, with special reference to the process of economic development, (b) to explain the consequences of gender discrimination for economic development, and (c) to discuss strategies for ending gender discrimination in the development process.
DEV 506: Monitoring and Evaluation of Development Programs
This 3 credit course aims to provide the key concepts and skills needed to develop, manage, and carry out monitoring and evaluation of development projects. The idea is to provide generic concepts and tools though project specific examples will be used as case studies. The focus will be on developing a mindset of critical enquiry and openness to the diversity of methodologies ranging from survey based to participatory.
Research Concepts, Methods, and Applications (9 credits)
DEV 690: Research Methods and Concepts
This course aims to strengthen the basic fundamentals of research methods, where they will gain an understanding of scientific approaches, objectives and role of research in attaining knowledge, and will acquire an appreciation of the different approaches, divisions and methods of research.
DEV 691: Statistics and Computer Skill Development
The course aims to develop students’ basic skills in quantitative methods in research by laying a foundation in the fundamentals of mathematics and statistics and familiarising students with basic computer software used in quantitative social research.
DEV 692: Research Design and Proposal Writing
Students will learn the techniques of research and how to design a viable research. They will concentrate on selection and formulation of a research problem and write a successful research proposal based on an identified research problem.
Elective Courses (9 credits)
Mandatory Courses
Students are to complete a minimum of 3 elective courses. Beyond the list given below, students are free to choose from a broad range of other elective courses that are offered in any of the other BRAC University Masters Programs – subject to relevance and availability.
DEV 601: Comparative Development Experience
DEV 602: Development Informatics
DEV 603: Education and Development
DEV 604: Environment and Development
DEV 605: Governance and Development
DEV 606: Health and Development
DEV 607: Indigenous Knowledge and Development
DEV 608: Micro-finance and Development
DEV 609: Nationalism, Identity Politics and Development
DEV 610: NGOs and Social Entrepreneurship
DEV 611: Population and Development
DEV 612: Project Appraisal and Management
DEV 613: The Rights-Based Approach to Development
DEV 614: Technology and Development
DEV 615: Urban Development
DEV 616: Financial Management
DEV 617: Law and Development
DEV 618: Social Communication
DEV 619: Land Acquisition, Displacement and Development
DEV 620: Involuntary Resettlement and Rehabilitation
DEV 621: Development Induced Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Optional: Thesis (3 credits)
Optional Courses
Students may choose to write a thesis based on a proposal, which will be an original research completed under a supervisor assigned by the university. The student will have to present and defend his/her thesis in front of an academic committee. After successful defence and necessary revisions, the student will be eligible for getting an MDS with Thesis degree.
Facilities and Support
The MDS program at BRAC University provides students with access to a range of facilities and resources that support their academic and professional development. Some of the key facilities and resources available to MDS students include:
: BRAC University has a state-of-the-art library with a wide collection of books, journals, and online resources related to development studies. MDS students have access to the library's resources, which include specialized databases, e-books, and online journals.
Research Centers
: The MDS students have the opportunity to engage with the research centers, which provide a range of resources and opportunities for students to conduct research, attend workshops and participate in seminars.
Career Services
: BRAC University provides career services to MDS students, which include career counseling, job search assistance and networking opportunities.
Student Support Services
: The university provides a range of support services for students, including academic advising, counseling, and disability services.