Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/academics/offices/office-proctor/campus-safeguarding
Page Title: Campus Safeguarding | BRAC University

Campus Safeguarding | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Safeguarding is a process of ensuring all the stakeholders/members of the institution are protected from any sort of sexual harassment, bullying, ragging, humiliation, abuse, exploitation, and threat. Brac University believes all individuals have a right to learn and grow within a safe environment, and we are pledged to provide a safe and positive atmosphere to all the members of Brac University, including students, staff, visitors, partners, faculty members, volunteers, and those who come into contact with the University activities. We will not endure any sexual harassment, bullying, ragging, humiliation, abuse, and violence on any platform and we will take all anticipatory measures to keep our campus and community safe.
Brac University desires to ensure the highest possible standards to meet its social, ethical, and legitimate responsibilities to protect and safeguard the welfare of all its stakeholders/members. Our prime purpose is to safeguard vulnerable groups or individuals from abuse, exploitation, and threat. Safeguarding policy recognizes the welfare of the student as a paramount importance. We always try to provide a safe campus life for our students. We will take the necessary steps to provide a safe learning campus in line with our standard policy and procedure.
Safeguarding policy states the University’s position on preventing and reducing harm for all stakeholders/members of Brac University. This policy promotes and prioritizes the safety and wellbeing of everyone. This policy ensures that roles and responsibilities are made clear in respect of safeguarding affairs. Safeguarding policy offers assurance to all the members of Brac University that safeguarding incidents will be addressed effectively and promptly. Brac University authority pledges that they will continue to find gaps and flaws in the safeguarding policy and address them whenever they are found. They will bring innovative safeguarding solutions to upgrade the policy if needed.
Finally, Brac University is committed to providing a safe environment for everyone regardless of any kinds of challenges. Campus Safeguarding is our supreme priority, and we care about everyone’s safety against harassment, bullying, ragging, intimidation, humiliation, abuse, and any kind of violence.
Request for Information