Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/academics/policies-and-procedures/examinations
Page Title: Examinations | BRAC University

Examinations | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Exams and Tests
The performance of the students is evaluated throughout the semester through class tests, quizzes, assignments, and midterm’s exams. End of semester evaluation includes final exams, terms papers, project work etc. Numerical scores earned by a student in tests, exams, assignments etc. are cumulated and converted to letter grades. All Students are required to attend all tests, quizzes, assignments and exams.
Quizzes /Tests/Assignments
Quizzes /Tests/Assignments are scheduled in class hour or tutorial hour.
Mid Term & Final exams
Midterm exam is held in the midterm exam week announced in the Semester Calendar. The duration of the midterm exam is between one to two hours.
Final Exam schedule is announced in the Semester Calendar. Final exams are comprehensive and the duration of the final exam is three hours for 3 credits course and two hours for a 2 credits course.
Students who attend final exams and are unable to complete them for any reason are assigned a failing grade (F). These students are not allowed to complete the exam at another time or appeal for a make-up exam. Students who do not withdraw or drop from courses and do not take their final exams are also assigned a failing grade for final exams.
Exam conflicts
An exam conflict occurs when a student has two exams or a class meeting and an exam scheduled for the same day and time. If the conflict involves two exams, the student will take both exams on the same day: one with the class and the second exam at a different time that day as scheduled by the instructor or department.
Make up Exams
All students are expected to take their exams on time and as scheduled.
Students who attend final exams and are unable to complete them for any reason are assigned a failing grade (F), for the course. These students are not allowed to appeal for a make up exams. Students who do not drop or withdraw from courses are also assigned a failing grade.
Make up tests, exams or quizzes may be organized for those students who could not appear in the tests/exam/quizzes for medical or other compelling/unavoidable reasons acceptable to the University. A student has to apply for makeup’s showing reasons with evidence for his failure to take the scheduled exams. Students seeking leave or makeup exams on medical grounds must contact the medical officer of BRAC University as soon as possible and obtain a medical certificate from him/her.
For make up of Quizzes, Class Tests, Assignments, Participation
etc, s/he should apply to the course teacher and for makeup of Mid Term and Final Exams, s/he should apply to the chairperson of the parent department through the course teacher by filling the makeup exam form. The application form is available at the registrar’s office and on our website. Students must apply for a makeup exam within 10 days from the day of the exam.
The Registrar’s Office will announce and post the student list of those who are applying for makeup exam. Dates for makeup exams will be schedule by the respective departments and course teachers.
Students unable to appear in the final exams may sit for the final makeup exams on the dates decided by the department/school which be within 4 weeks of the following semester. Students failing to appear in the make up final exams shall be awarded an ‘F’ Grade and shall have to repeat the course. Students who will be permitted to appear in the makeup exams will be assigned an ‘I’ grade for that course and this grade will stay until the student appears in the makeup exams at the first available opportunity; if s/he fails to appear in the makeup exams the ‘I’ grade will automatically be converted to an ‘F’ grade.”
Directions for Makeup Exam:
• Collect the make up form from the registrar’s office
• Verify your medical certificate/documents along with your health card from BRAC University Medical Center (for medical ground)
• Take the approval of the course teacher/s
• Take the approval from the Dean/Chair of your respective Department
• Pay the makeup exam fee and Collect a clearance from accounts office located on the 6th Floor of BU6
• Submit the form to the Registrar’s Office (located on the 4th Floor of BU6) with sufficient documents.
Exam Policies and Procedures
Every student has to report to the assigned exam hall/room at least15 minutes before the exam starts. If a student arrives more than 30 minutes late, he/she is not allowed to take the exam/test at the scheduled time. Scheduled exam/test time will not be extended to make up for late arrival.
Check in with the invigilator by presenting your ID-Card.
All personal belongings are to be left in areas designated by the invigilator. Under no circumstances are these items to be taken into the exam/test room.
Confirm your start and finish time with the invigilator and whether you want to be advised of the remaining exam/test time.
No one will be allowed to leave the hall/room within the first one-hour and the last one-hour of the exam except in case of emergency.
Electronic and telecommunications devices are not allowed in the exam/test room. This includes cellular phones, pagers, MP3 players, programmable or graphing calculators, personal assistant devices, personal computers etc.
Students are allowed to bring non-programmable calculators, pens, pencils, erasers, non-programmable clock/watch etc. The invigilator may ask to check items brought into the exam/test room.
Unless specified by your course instructor, prepared notes such as crib/cue sheets, word lists/memory aids will not be allowed in the exam/test room. Prior to the date of a test/exam, the use of any aid must be approved by your course instructor; otherwise it will not be permitted.
Unless specified by your course instructor that the exam/test is an open book format, books will not be allowed in the exam/test room.
Students are not allowed to take breaks during the exams. Under no circumstances will you be allowed to leave the premises except to use the washroom facilities with invigilator escort. Extra time is not allotted for breaks.
Only one student will be allowed at a time to go out for use of toilet or for other emergency reasons.
Invigilators are not permitted to discuss exam/test questions with you. Any questions or concerns should be brought to the attention of the invigilator who will record them for your course instructor.
Students can request ahead of time that the course instructor or assistant come to the exam/test room during scheduled exam/test time to clarify or answer your questions within your scheduled exam/test timeframe.
Every piece of exam script including the extra script should bear the invigilator’s signature.
Re-checking of Examination Scripts and Re-grading
A proposal for a grade change may be initiated by the course teacher and must be approved by the Chair of Department and the Dean. A grade change may be initiated on the grounds of posting errors or errors in calculation, incomplete grades or other identified procedural shortfalls or errors. The grade change application will be submitted to the Examination Controller.
A student may apply to the Chair of Department or the Dean for the re-checking of an examination script. Such a request may be made on the grounds of evidence of procedural errors, arbitrariness or prejudice. The student must make any request within Seven (07) calendar days of the publication of the mark. The Chair of Department or the Dean may, after checking with the original grader, arrange for the evaluation of an examination script to be conducted by two members of the faculty not previously involved in the examination and marking process, supported by a member of the Examination Controller’s office. The rechecking process and submission of any revised grade to the Examinations Controller should be completed within 15 calendar days.
Transcript
Transcript policy would be effective to all students enrolled in
Summer-2022 and onward
as followed:
There was a proposal that the transcript should, in the interests of transparency, show the final grade achieved by the student and the number of attempts/repeats/retakes. It has been decided that full grading details of all retakes and repeats will be recorded in the transcripts, in order to encourage utmost transparency.
Exam offence
Resorting to unfair means is considered a very serious offence. Stern disciplinary actions will be taken in such cases.
Cases of cheating or plagiarism will be referred to the Disciplinary Committee, which shall investigate the matter and recommend necessary action(s).
Rules against cheating and plagiarism shall be strictly enforced.
Policy on offences
and related disciplinary actions
Implementation of punishments related to cheating during exams as decided by the Disciplinary Committee should be expeditiously carried out.
Jurisdiction for various levels will be determined by the university authority for different levels of offences during exam.
Standardization in punishments will be made as detailed below:
- Level 1 to be implemented by the invigilator
- Decisions on Levels 2 and 3 can only be taken by the Disciplinary Committee of the university.
Request for Information