Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/academics/policies-and-procedures/transfer-credit-or-waiver
Page Title: Transfer Credit or Waiver | BRAC University

Transfer Credit or Waiver | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
BRAC University allows students from other institutions to transfer their credits. Transfer of credits from an educational institution with a system similar to BRAC University may be considered only after admission. In order to estimate which courses can be transfer to BRAC University, Students need to follow these guidelines:
Original transcripts and prospectus of the university /program showing academic system, grading system and course descriptions (course outlines, if available) etc. should be submitted with the credit transfer form, available at registrar’s office and at our webpage, to the concerned department.
Courses that are similar in content with BRAC University or that have equivalence with BRAC University may be considered for transfer. However courses that are not directly equivalent or similar to BRAC University courses may be transferred as elective courses based on approval of the credit transfer committee.
The credit transfer from other universities will not exceed 50% of the credits required for degree completion at BRAC University except Architecture.
The total credits transferred by a student from other universities should not exceed 65 credits including maximum of 21 credits in design studio courses for students of Architecture.
Attendance at the Residential Semester at Savar is compulsory for all undergraduate students of BRAC University including transfer students.
Students who have transferred credits from other universities will not be eligible for Chancellor or Vice Chancellor’s Gold Medal of BRAC University.
The details of courses transferred from other universities will not be mentioned in the Transcript of BRAC University, only the number of credits will be mentioned.
Request for Information