Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/admissions/international-applicants/scholarship-financial-aid
Page Title: Scholarship / Financial Aid | BRAC University

Scholarship / Financial Aid | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
BRAC University International Scholarship / Financial Aid
International Scholarship Committee has revised the criteria for International Scholarship/Financial Aid as follows; effective from Summer 2023:
1. BRAC Scholarship (A Needs Based Scholarship)
100% tuition and other fees (semester fees, lab fees, library etc.) waiver with food and accommodations awarded to economically disadvantaged but meritorious students
Eligibility and other Requirements
A minimum CGPA of 3.00 on a scale of 4.00 is required to be maintained in all the semesters.
In case of BRAC Scholarship, if a student fails to achieve the required CGPA, s/he will be allowed for a tuition fee waiver for the next TWO consecutive semesters, within which s/he will have to regain the required CGPA, otherwise scholarship will be discontinued unless there are special circumstances recognized by the Scholarship committee.
2. Merit Scholarship Based on BRAC University Academic Results
An undergraduate student requires to complete at least 30 credits and a postgraduate student requires to complete at least 1/4
credits of their enrolled program to avail this scholarship.
An undergraduate student must have to take at least 12 credits, 15 credits for School of Law students and 18 credits for Pharmacy students in the current semester and the previous semester in order to avail this scholarship.
A postgraduate student must have to take at least 9 credits in the current semester and the previous semester in order to avail this scholarship.
If a student takes any retake or repeat courses in the previous semester or in the current semester then s/he will not be eligible for this scholarship. Also, if a student has a W grade or fails (F) in any subject (s) in the previous semester, s/he will not be eligible for this scholarship.
The CGPA range and respective scholarship percentages are as follows
3.70 - 3.84
3.85 - 3.89
3.90 - 3.94
3.95 - 3.99
Percentage
General Conditions applicable for Scholarship/ Financial Aid:
International Undergraduate Students:
A1.    In the first semester, students may take two non-credit courses plus one credit course (optional) or one non-credit course plus two credit courses.
Students of School of Law (SoL) will have to take minimum 12 credits or 4 courses (non-credit or credit courses).
Students of Pharmacy will have to take minimum 15 credits plus a non-credit English/Math course.
Scholarship/Financial Aid will not be provided for the non-credit courses.
A2.    After the first semester students are required to take minimum 12 credits in each semester in order to continue any type of scholarship.
Students of School of Law (SoL) are required to take minimum 15 credits.
Students of Pharmacy are required to take minimum 18 credits.
A3.    If a student fails (F) in any subject(s), s/he will not be considered for tuition fee waiver for two subsequent semesters except Merit Scholarship. However, s/he will be allowed to re-apply with proper documents in the third semester with required CGPA.
A4.    Tuition fee waiver is not awarded on retake/repeat subject(s). The student is required to pay for the retake/repeat subject(s). For Merit Scholarship, if a student takes any retake or repeat courses in the previous semester or in the current semester then s/he will not be eligible for scholarship.
A5.    Students having “Incomplete (I)”/Pending (P) grade in a semester will be enlisted for Scholarship/Financial Aid in their current semester but have to pay for all the courses until s/he obtains the required CGPA after “make-up” or grade submission. His/her waiver will be reimbursed/adjusted in the next semester.
A6. Students, suspended/penalized for disciplinary reasons, may not be eligible for scholarship/financial aid for the remaining academic period at Brac University (starting from the date such decision is made).
A7.    If a student is eligible for more than one category of Scholarship/Financial Aid, only the higher one will be adjusted.
A8. Scholarship is not applicable on Non-Tuition Fees (i.e., Admission Fee, IT Facility Uses Fee, PHR Lab Fee, Studio Lab Fee, CSE Lab Fee, Residential Fee, Library Fee, Library Membership Fee, Student Activity Fee etc.) except BRAC Scholarship.
A9.    Scholarship is awarded to the number of credit hours assigned for completion of graduation for each program. Waiver is not awarded for additional credit hours taken by a student for their double major and others.
A10. Scholarship Committee may change the policy and eligibility criteria from time to time based on the availability of funds. The Scholarship Committee will make its endeavors to give advance notice of changes.
International Postgraduate Students:
A1.    The students are required to take a minimum of 9 credit hours in all the semesters. (This will be applicable to students admitted from Summer- 2023 semester onwards.)
A2.    Scholarship/Financial Aid will be applicable after considering the tuition fee waiver of 10% - 40% which is based on the student’s undergraduate results.
A8. Scholarship is not applicable on Non-Tuition Fees (i.e., Admission Fee, IT Facility Uses Fee, PHR Lab Fee, Studio Lab Fee, CSE Lab Fee, Residential Fee, Library Fee, Library Membership Fee, Student Activity Fee and etc.) except BRAC Scholarship.
Request for Information