Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/admissions/postgraduate
Page Title: Admission Requirements | BRAC University

Admission Requirements | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Objectives
The EMBA Program aims to make corporate executives capable of skillfully using theoretical knowledge in practical situations and making effective decisions.
Minimum Qualifications
Particulars
Required Minimum GPA/Grade
SSC/Equivalent and HSC/Equivalent (including additional subject)
Minimum GPA 2.5 or 2nd Class/Division in SSC and HSC separately
O-level with five subjects and A-level with two subjects as per the scale of A=5, B=4, C=3, D=2 and E=1 [Only one E is acceptable]
Minimum GPA 2.5 in O-Level and A-Level separately
Minimum 15 years of schooling and 3 years of professional/executive experience after graduation or 14 years of schooling with 6 or more years of corporate experience (from any government-authorized university).
Minimum 2nd Class/Division or CGPA 2.5 out of 4.0 or equivalent
Areas of Concentration
Accounting
Human Resources Management
Operations and Supply Chain Management
Entrepreneurship and
Information Technology Management
Foundation and GED programs do not qualify for admission.
Candidates who have completed IB-DP with a minimum DP Score of 24 are eligible to apply.
Admission Test
All eligible applicants are required to sit for an interview.
** Candidates having foreign degrees must send their academic documents before the admission test to
admissions@bracu.ac.bd
Applicants must hold a recognized undergraduate law degree from a government-authorized or internationally accredited institution.
All eligible applicants,
unless exempted,
are required to sit for a
written admission test.
Candidates who qualify in the written test will be invited for an
for final selection.
Written Test Format
Total Marks:
50, Duration: 1 hour
●    Assessment Areas:
o    Legal Knowledge
o    Analytical Ability
o    Language Proficiency (English)
●    Constitutional Law
●    Public International Law
●    Principles and procedures relating to civil and criminal law
Sample Questions:
1.      Although fundamental principles of the state policy are not directly enforceable by the Court, their incorporation in the constitution indeed carries significance. In light of this observation, reflect your thought on the relevance and rationale of enshrining such principles in the constitution (300 words).
2.      The global order has recently been encountered by severe atrocities committed in Gaza. Many considers that international law is buried when devastation was widespread and children were killed. As a learner of international law, reflect your opinion on what principles of international law are allegedly violated (300 words)?
Written Test and Exemption Criteria
1. BRAC University LL.B. graduates with a CGPA of 3.0 or above (out of 4.0) are exempted from the Written Test. Such candidates will directly appear for the interview.
2. BRAC University LL.B. graduates with CGPA 2.5 or above but below 3.0 must qualify in the written test before appearing for the interview.
3. Applicants from other universities in Bangladesh or abroad must sit for the written test. Those who qualify will be called for interview.
The interview assesses the applicant’s:
●    Academic background and legal acumen
●    Motivation for pursuing LL.M.
●    Analytical ability and communication skills
●    Research interest and professional goals
Minimum Accredited bachelor’s degree in B.Sc. Engg in CSE/EE and B.Sc. in CS/CE (from any government-authorized university).
All eligible applicants, unless exempted*, are required to sit for a written admission test. Those who qualify for the written test will be called for an interview for final selection.
*Eligibility for exemption from the written test:
(a) BRAC University graduates having a CGPA of 3.0 or above.
(b) Applicants with the GRE/GMAT scores as specified below:
- Revised GRE score of 300 total for combined verbal and quantitative scores,
- GMAT total combined score of 560.
GRE/GMAT scores are considered valid for 5 (five) years after the test date.
M.Sc. in Computer Science and Engineering Courses =18 credits and Thesis = 18 credits
M.Engg. in Computer Science and Engineering Courses = 30 credits and Project = 6 credits All    classes are held during the weekends between 3:00 pm - 9:00 pm.
All classes are held in the evening: Sunday to Thursday 6:00 pm - 9:00 pm.
A candidate must have a B.Sc. degree in Electrical and Electronic Engineering (EEE) or Electrical Engineering (EE) or Electronic and Telecommunication Engineering (ETE) or Electronic and Communication Engineering (ECE) or an equivalent degree in related areas.
Candidates having a B.Sc. degree in CS/CSE need to take prerequisite courses. Prerequisite courses may be waived if the candidate has already completed equivalent courses.
Bachelor of Science (from any government-authorized university)
The written test and the interview will be held on the same date.
30 credits from core and specialization courses.
6 credits allocated to either a dissertation or two elective courses (totaling 6 credits).
Full-time students can complete the course in 4 consecutive semesters.
Class Schedule: All classes are held in the evening, 6:30 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday to Tuesday.
Minimum a Bachelor's degree (15 years of education) from any government-authorized university.
All eligible applicants are required to submit a Statement of Purpose (SOP) as part of the admission process. Those who meet the criteria based on their SOP will then be invited for an interview as the final step in the selection process.
The Statement of Purpose (SOP) submission will take place on the university’s central exam date. Shortlisted candidates will then be invited for interviews, scheduled within the next 1-2 days.
**Candidates having foreign degrees must send their academic documents before the admission test to
Minimum Bachelor’s degree with 16 years of Education in Economics. Those with degrees in business studies, physical sciences, engineering or social sciences are also eligible to apply but may have to take foundation courses.
Only BRAC University graduates having a CGPA of 3.0 or above.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS
•    4-year Bachelor's Degree or 3-year Bachelor's Degree and 1-year Master/Postgraduate Diploma Degree in Health Sciences (Medicine, Nursing, Midwifery, including Allied Health Sciences)/Life Sciences/Social Sciences (Anthropology, Public Health, Food and Nutrition, Sociology, Psychology or any other Discipline)
•    Minimum CGPA 2.5 out of 4.0 for Bachelor's Degree
•    Minimum GPA of 2.5 in O-Levels/Equivalent in five subjects and A-Levels/Equivalent in two subjects according to the scale (A=5, B=4, C=3, D=2 & E=1)
•    Minimum GPA of 2.5 in SSC/Equivalent and HSC/Equivalent separately (including additional subject)
ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS
•    Proficiency in English and Mathematics is required
•    Basic computer skills, including Microsoft Office
•    2-3 years of professional Public Health Experience is preferred
*Anyone irrespective of ethnicity, religion, disability, gender or sexual orientation may apply.
DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR APPLICATION
●    Both side scanned copy of all academic papers: O Levels/Secondary School Certificate/Equivalent, A-Levels/Higher Secondary Certificate/Equivalent, Bachelor’s and/or master’s degree (if any)
●    Updated Curriculum Vitae/Resume
●    Scanned copy of passport or National ID
●    Passport size photograph
●    Statement of Purpose: Describe your professional interests and goals in pursuing a career in Public Health and how BRAC JPGSPH’s MPH will contribute to achieving them (not to exceed 600 words)
●    A Professional or Academic Letter of Recommendation
**Applications with inadequate documents will be cancelled.
TUITION & SCHOLARSHIPS
●    The tuition fee for the 18-months programme is US$ 12,000.
●    Up to 50% Special Waiver on tuition fee based on merit
●    Scholarships are available based on academic merit and financial need.
VISA SUPPORT
●    Letters of Support for the visa process as needed for international students.
WHAT WE COVER AS PART OF TUITION
●    All course fees and course-related materials (Books, Articles, Lecture Notes) for 18 Courses
●    Experiential community-immersive fieldwork in courses in different rural and urban settings with transportation, accommodation and refreshments.
●    Access to BRACU Library resources.
●    Access to online resource materials: Journals, Reports, HINARI, MyAthens, EBSCO Host, Cochrane, etc.
●    Course-related analytical & statistical software support.
●    Thesis – all costs covered, including mentoring & supervision.
●    Internship placement.
●    Certificate Courses on Implementation Research & Systematic Review.
**No hidden fees.
ACCOMMODATION FOR STUDENTS
●    Accommodation for national & international students at BRACU Dormitories. The total cost of accommodation at BRACU dormitories for 18 months is USD 6,000 per student including four meals and internet services.
●    Daily transport for residential students between dorm and campus.
ADMISSION INQUIRIES
jpgsphmph@bracu.ac.bd
rakiba.tajrin@bracu.ac.bd
mahir.ashifur@bracu.ac.bd
(+880) 1799106195
(+880) 1777846296
All eligible applicants are required to sit for an interview (The interview will be held on 09 April 2025 from 3:00 pm).
All eligible applicants are required to sit for a written admission test. Those who qualify for the written test will be called for an interview for final selection.
(b) Applicants will get an exemption from the English Composition part of the written test if they have the following IELTS scores:
International English Language Testing System (IELTS): Overall band score of 7.0, with a minimum score of 6.0 in each module.
[IELTS scores are considered valid for 2 years after the test date]
**Candidate must send the IELTS documents before the admission test to
Revised GRE score of 300 total for combined verbal and quantitative scores, or GMAT total combined score of 560.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS): Overall band score of 7.0, with sub scores of 6.0 each
GRE/GMAT scores are considered valid for 5 (five) years and IELTS for 2 years after the test date.
All eligible applicants, except the BRAC University graduates having a CGPA of 3.0 or above, are required to sit for the written admission test. The admission Test will have 'two' parts: 1-hr 'written test', and, a short 'interview' to identify the applicant’s proficiency level in the English language. Both the ‘written test’ and the ‘interview’ will be held on the same day in a short (15/30-minute) break. An interview is, however, mandatory for all applicants.
Master of Science in Mental Health and Psychosocial Support (MHPSS)
The Master of Science (MSc) in Mental Health and  Psychosocial Support (MHPSS) is a unique, pioneering academic program in Bangladesh, offered by the BRAC  Institute of Educational Development (BRAC IED) under  BRAC University. The program will equip students with the knowledge, practical skills, and research expertise needed to transform how mental health and psychosocial support are understood, delivered, and promoted in Bangladesh and beyond.
With mental health issues rising rapidly across all age groups and sectors—especially in the aftermath of the pandemic and amidst ongoing socio-economic stress—this program is designed to create a new generation of skilled professionals,  researchers, and advocates who can lead mental health efforts across a range of systems: education, humanitarian aid, development, healthcare, and beyond.
Class time: 6.00 PM - 9.00 PM
Minimum Bachelor's Degree (15 years of education) [from any government-authorized university]
Candidates who have completed IB-DP with a minimum DP Score of 24 are eligible to apply
Candidates who have completed any equivalent 12 years of schooling or IB-DP or High School Diploma (Grades 10–12), or William Carey Academy (Grades 10–12), or International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme(IB-DP), or Ontario Secondary School Diploma (Grades 10–12) from a reputed educational institution are also eligible to apply. Before applying, please contact the BRAC University Admissions Office at
for further guidance.
●     All eligible applicants, except the BRAC University graduates having a CGPA of 3.0 or above, are required to sit for the written admission test.
●     The Admission Test will have ‘two’ parts:
○     1-hour written test
○   Interview (Those who qualify for the written test will be called for an interview for final selection.)
●     The interview is mandatory for all applicants.
Request for Information