Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/admissions/international-applicants/undergraduate-admission
Page Title: Undergraduate Admission | BRAC University

Undergraduate Admission | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
BRAC University offers excellent facilities to International students for studying in Bangladesh in various programs at the undergraduate level. Visit the link for detailed admissions programs:
Admissions programs
Application deadlines:
BRAC University offers three semesters in each academic year - Spring, Summer and Fall. International students can apply any time during the year. There is no application deadline for International Applicant.
Application for admission
A member of BRAC University International Student Recruitment Team will assist you to complete your admission application. We aim to make your admissions process as simple and easy as possible.
Minimum qualifications for applying
Students have to submit all necessary academic documents to the International Office or may email scanned copies of these to
info.international-office@bracu.ac.bd
. Students will be informed about their eligibility for being admitted once these documents have been scrutinized and evaluated.
Documents Required
The academic and other related documents required for admission to BRAC University are as follows:
Completed admission application form
Original Copy of academic transcripts/certificates
Statement from your home institute which confirms medium of instruction is English
Police Clearance Certificate from your country of origin/No Objection Letter (NOC) from your home institute
Valid passport and Student visa
Health checkup/medical certificates
Academic Qualifications for Undergraduate Admission
Academic qualifications (for all Undergraduate Programs Except Pharmacy)
Minimum GPA of 3.0 in O-Levels in five subjects and A-Levels in two subjects according to the Brac University scale (A=5, B=4, C=3 & D=2). Subjects with E grade will not be considered.
Candidates who have completed higher secondary education (12 years of schooling) under a system different from 0/A Level or equivalent will be considered.
Candidates with a break of study of not more than three years may apply for admission.
Academic qualifications (for Pharmacy only)
Candidates must have a minimum aggregate GPA of 8.00 out of 10 (on a scale of 10), with no grade lower than 3.5 Secondary/Equivalent & Higher Secondary/Equivalent. In addition, they must achieve a minimum GPA of 4.00 in Physics, Chemistry and Biology in both examinations. They also need a minimum GPA of 3.5 in Mathematics (on a scale of 5 in Higher Secondary or equivalent). For “O” levels & "A" level candidates, they must have a B grade in Physics, Chemistry and Biology, and minimum C grade in Mathematics.
Candidates having no Mathematics or failed in the Higher Secondary/ “A” level or recognized equivalents may be admitted, but they need to take an extra 3 (three) credits course on Mathematics relevant to B. Pharm. curriculum.
Candidate must pass Higher Secondary/ "A" level or recognized equivalent examination in the current year or one previous year. For example, the 2024 January session candidate must pass their Higher Secondary/ "A" level or recognized equivalent examination in 2022 or 2023.
Foreign students must have passed 12 education years and got the same grades in recognized equivalent examinations from foreign recognized institutions and must need to get an equivalence certificate from the Pharmacy Council before admission.
After completing the B. Pharm foreign students will not get professional registration from Bangladesh Pharmacy Council.
Subject Requirements for particular programs at undergraduate level
Please visit the link for details:
admissions programs
Admission Test:
All eligible candidates will have to sit for a written admission test and an interview. Those who qualify in the written test will be called for interview for final selection.
Written Admission test for the international students will be taken according to current practice, which is administered by BRAC International Offices. Where there is no Brac office, partnership with local academic institutions will be made for administering the admission test.
Applicants of EMBA are not required to give written test but must pass a viva for admission.
All qualified applicants of written admission test will have to give their viva on line on a specified date and time.
Admission test exemption
Applicants will get written admission test exemption if they have a minimum SAT score of 1550 (Old)/SAT score 1050 (New) for ANT, ENG, LLB, BBA, ECO, BIO, MIC, CS, CSE, ECE, EEE, MAT, APE, PHY and TOEFL paper based score of 550/ TOEFL IBT score of 79 for ANT, ENG, LLB or IELTS score of 6.5 for ANT, ENG, LLB. They must provide proper evidence to get written test exemption through email minimum 15 days before the admission test.
Provisional admission
Some students wishing to join the University may not have the required standard of proficiency in English language. If students fail to attain the minimum standard of English proficiency required by the University, they may be asked to attend remedial English courses before admission. At the end of this course they will have to take an English proficiency test and if successful will be admitted to BRAC University
Credit Transfer
Credit transfer from an educational institution with a system similar to BRAC University may be considered after admission. Such candidates will have to apply with the required documents and are subject to the credit transfer rules of BRAC University.
The total credits transferred by a student from other universities should not exceed 50 (or 65 credits for students of Architecture Department). The student must meet the residency requirement of at least two years at BRAC University.
Request for Information