Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/admissions/faqs-admissions
Page Title: FAQs, Admissions | BRAC University

FAQs, Admissions | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Frequently Asked Questions
Find answers to common questions about admissions, tuition, campus life, and more. Whether you're a prospective student, a current member of the BRAC University community, or a parent, this FAQ section provides quick solutions to your queries. Navigate through sections to explore essential information at your fingertips.
Q. How will I get admission information about BRAC University?
The admission information is available in the following places:
i) BRAC University website (www.bracu.ac.bd).
ii) Inquiry, Registration & Admissions Office, BRAC University (Phone: +88 09638464646, Call Center ext: 1001) One can also get admission information by sending queries at the e-mail
address: admissions@bracu.ac.bd
Q. How many semesters are offered yearly at BRAC University and when do they start?
BRAC University offers 3 semesters a year: Spring, Summer & Fall, and these start in January, May & September respectively.
For Pharmacy & LLB: BRAC University offers admission for Pharmacy & LLB department twice a year. You can apply in for Pharmacy: Spring or Summer semester and for LLB: Spring or Fall. The classes start from January and July for Pharmacy. January and September for LLB accordingly.
Tentative Schedule - Admission Tests:
1st Intake
2nd Intake
Q. What Undergraduate programs does BRAC University offer? How many credits do I have to complete per program?
The available Undergraduate programs with credits are as follows:
B. Arch – 207 Credits
BBA – 130 Credits
BSc in CSE – 136 Credits
BSc in CS – 124 Credits
BSc in ECE – 136 Credits
BSc in EEE – 136 Credits
BSS in Anthropology - 120 Credits
BSS in Economics - 120 Credits
BA in English - 120 Credits
LL.B (Hons) - 135 Credits
BSc in Physics - 132 Credits
BSc in Applied Physics and Electronics - 130
BSc in Mathematics – 127 Credits
BSc in Microbiology – 136 Credits
BSc in Biotechnology – 136 Credits
Bachelor of Pharmacy (Hons) - 164 Credits
Q. What Postgraduate programs does BRAC University offer? How many credits do I have to complete per program?
The available Postgraduate programs with credits are as follows:
ECD – 36 credits
EMBA – 45 credits
MA ENG – 36 credits
MA TESOL – 39/From non-English graduate 45 credits
MBA – 60 credits
MSAE - 36 credits
MDS – 45 credits
MED – 36 credits
MPH – 51 credits
MPSM – 48 credits
MS BIO – 36 credits
MS EEE – 36 credits
MSC CSE – 36 credits
MDM – 36 credits
MAGD - 36 credits
Q. How can I apply for Admission?
BRAC University website to have precise information about admission procedures.
Q. Do the applicants apply for admission only online or in person or by written application?
Applicants can apply only online for admission (admissions.bracu.ac.bd).
Q. Is the application process the same for international applicants?
International Applicants must contact the
scholarship@bracu.ac.bd
and can apply only online for admission (admissions.bracu.ac.bd). The application process is the same for all applicants
Q. What are the requirements to apply for EEE/ECE/CSE/Physics/APE/CS/Mathematics in Undergraduate level?
Candidates for EEE, ECE, CSE, APE and Physics must have minimum B grade in Physics & Mathematics in HSC/Equivalent and with minimum C grade in Physics & Mathematics at 'A'-Levels.
Candidates for BSc in Electronic & Communication Engineer and Electrical & Electronic Engineering having Physics and Mathematics but not Chemistry at HSC or 'A'-Levels must take a remedial course on Chemistry in addition to the courses required for the program.
Candidates for BSc in Computer Science and BSc in Mathematics must have minimum B grade in Mathematics at HSC or minimum C grade in Mathematics in 'A'-Levels.
Q. What are the requirements to apply for Biotechnology/ Microbiology in Undergraduate level?
Candidates for BSc in Biotechnology and Microbiology should have minimum C grade in Biology and Chemistry at HSC/ A-Levels/Equivalent. Candidates not having Mathematics at HSC or A-Levels must take a remedial course on Mathematics in addition to the courses required for the program.
Q. What are the requirements to apply for Pharmacy in Undergraduate level?
Candidates must have a minimum aggregate GPA of 8.00 out of 10 (on a scale of 10), with no grade lower than 3.5 in SSC/O Level/Equivalent and HSC/A Level/Equivalent. In addition, they must achieve a minimum GPA of 4.00 in Chemistry and Biology in both examinations. They also need a minimum GPA of 3.5 in Mathematics and Physics in both examinations (on a scale of 5 in HSC or equivalent). For “O” Level and "A" Level candidates, they must have a B grade in Chemistry, Biology, and a minimum C grade in Mathematics and Physics.
Candidates having no Mathematics or failed in the subject at the HSC/ A Level or recognized equivalent exam may be admitted, but they need to take an extra 3 (three) credits course on Mathematics relevant to B. Pharm. curriculum.
Candidates must pass HSC/ "A" level or recognized equivalent examinations in the current year or the previous year. For example, the 2024 January session candidate must pass their HSC/ "A" level or recognized equivalent examination in 2022 or 2023.
Foreign students must have passed 12 education years and got the same grades in recognized equivalent examinations from foreign recognized institutions and must get an equivalence certificate from the Pharmacy Council before admission. Recognized equivalents mean Education Board, Madrasah Board and Bangladesh Technical Education Board etc.
Q. How can I calculate my GPA of ‘O’/‘A’ levels for the admission application in BRAC University?
Our requirement for undergraduate programs is to have a minimum GPA of 2.5 in ‘O’ Level and ‘A’ Level separately. For ‘O’ level best 5 subjects and ‘A’ level best 2 subjects will be counted. The grade will be calculated according to BRAC University scale: A=5, B=4, C=3 and D=2. Subjects with E Grade will not be considered. It is to be noted that applicants must fulfill subject-wise requirements.
You can check the below box for your help:
O/A Levels
Example (Best 5 for 'O' Level)
Grade Letter
As per following Scale
Cumulative Grade
Q. Can I see my application status online?
Applicants can check their application status online any time at
admissions.bracu.ac.bd
Q. Do I have to upload a photograph as part of my application form?
Applicants are required to upload their scanned recent formal passport size photograph taken within last three months.
Q. How can I correct my mistakes I made in the application form?
If applicants make any mistake during filling up their application form and submit it with that error, they are required to send an email immediately at
admissions@bracu.ac.bd
to inform the authority. But till submission you can edit the form any time.
Q. How much is the admission application fee?
Local Applicants need to pay the non-refundable application fee Tk. 1500. For international applicants, the non-refundable application fee is US$ 20.
Q. How can I pay the admission application fee?
Applicants can pay their admission application fee through-SSLCOMMERZ (Online payment gateway with 33+ payment Option)
Q. How many sections will be in the admission written test?
All candidates will have to sit for a written admission test and an interview in the manner as described:
Test section
BSS in Anthropology, BA in English and LLB (Hons)
BBA and BSS in Economics
English and Mathematics
Bachelor of Pharmacy, BSc in Microbiology and BSc in Biotechnology
English, Mathematics and Biology & Chemistry
BSc in Computer Science, BSc in Computer Science and Engineering, BSc in Electronic and Communication Engineering, BSc in Electrical and Electronic Engineering, BSc in Physics, BSc in Applied Physics & Electronics, BSc in Mathematics
English, Mathematics,
Higher Mathematics and Physics
Bachelor of Architecture
English, Mathematics and Drawing
In order to qualify, candidates must pass each section separately. Candidates who qualified in pre-university on the basis of written tests, will be called for an interview for final selection. In order to qualify, candidates must pass each section separately. Those who qualify in the written test will be called for interview for final selection.
Q. Do I have to appear in both a written test and an interview for Postgraduate admission?
For each postgraduate program, except EMBA and MEd, the admission test consists of a written test and an interview. Candidates for EMBA and MEd are required to qualify only in the interview.
Q. Do international students get offers for off-campus interview if they are not staying in Bangladesh?
For getting admission into BRAC University, International applicants must appear for written test and interview on the date and time mentioned in their admit cards in the designated exam site in their respective home countries.
Q. How many years of work experience do applicants require to apply for the EMBA program?
Those who have a minimum of 3-years of professional work experience (After Graduation) can apply for the EMBA Program.
Q. How can I collect my Admit card?
After the deadline of submitting the Admission Form, candidates will be notified through SMS to collect the admit card. They will be required to login to their account to collect the Admit Card. There will be an option named ‘
Ädmit Card’
at the left side. They are required to download the Admit Card from that option and print it out in an 80 gm A4 size white page.  Applicants must bring this printed Admit Card to the exam hall; otherwise, they will not be allowed to sit for the exam.
Q. How can I get the admission test results?
After the publication of the admission test result, applicants are required to check the result on the BRAC University website.
Q. How can I get information about Scholarship/Financial Aid in BRAC University?
Regarding all information about Financial Aid, please contact:
BRAC University (Phone: +88 09638464646, Call Center Ext: 1001 or email at scholarship@bracu.ac.bd
(BRAC University Scholarship Office)
Q. Does BRAC University accept any credits completed in other educational institutions?
Transfer of credits from an educational institution with a system similar to BRAC University may be considered after admission. Such candidates will have to apply with required documents and are subject to credit transfer rules of BRAC University.
Q. Does BRAC University offer any online courses?
We do not offer online courses or degree programs.
Q. Is there any provisional admission for those who do not have the required level of proficiency in English language?
Many students willing to join the university might not have the required standard of proficiency in English language. If the students fail to attain the minimum standard of English proficiency required by the university, they may be asked to attend remedial English courses before the admission to the university. At the end of this course, they will have to take an English proficiency test and if qualified be admitted to BRAC University.
Q. What is Pre-University Course for Undergraduate Programs?
A Pre-University course is for those students who proved themselves competent in their respective discipline during the admission test except in English. This is a twelve week long intensive program which assists students to become active and independent learners, critical thinkers, responsible and thoughtful adults, and most importantly successful university students. Many of the students who come from the mainstream Bangla medium background enjoy this intellectually challenging and welcoming atmosphere.
Q. Can I enroll as a visiting student? Is there a specific application process for visiting/guest students?
One can enroll as a visiting or guest student in BRAC University. Visiting or guest students are required to submit their applications along with the relevant transcripts and no objection letters (NOC) from her/his University. Please contact
for more details.
Q. Are there any obligations to attend the residential semester during the Undergraduate program? How much does the residential semester cost?
All students are required to attend a Residential Semester at the Savar Campus in the 3
semester. The cost is Tk. 88,000 for the 4-month long semester.  (*May increase with a notice before the semester)
Q. For Undergraduate programs which documents are required to be submitted by the candidates who have passed from abroad?
Candidates completed schooling outside Bangladesh will have to submit verified/attested copies of previous academic documents from their Institute/Foreign Ministry (of the country that they studied in) and equivalence certificates from the Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Dhaka. Also they can email at
Q. For Postgraduate programs, which documents are required to submit by the candidates who have passed from abroad?
Candidate must submit copies of your previous academic records which have to be verified from their respective institutions or attested from your respective Embassy/High Commission/Foreign Ministry and equivalence certificate from University Grants Commission (UGC) or Ministry of Education, Government of The People’s Republic of Bangladesh before the end of the first semester.
Q. Is there any evening class for undergraduate programs?
There is no evening class for undergraduate programs.
Q. Is there any evening class for postgraduate programs?
All the classes of Post graduate programs are held in the evening. There is a Weekend Program for EMBA and MSc CSE students.
Q. How can a fresher change the department?
Freshers can change the department before the class starts. They need to contact the Admissions Office.
Q. Are there any accommodation facilities in BRAC University?
Accommodation facilities are provided only to female student’s subject to availability of seats. For details, please contact
info@bracu.ac.bd
Q. Will BRAC University assist in applying for the visa process in case of international students?
Yes, BRAC University (
international-office@bracu.ac.bd
) will assist in applying for the visa as needed by a foreign student.
Q. For further information regarding Admission who should I contact?
For more queries, please contact the Inquiry, Registration & Admissions Office, BRAC University (Phone: +88 09638464646, Call Center Ext: 1001. You can also send e-mail at
Request for Information