Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/news/first-year-advising-team-fyat-summer-2020
Page Title: First Year Advising Team (FYAT), Summer 2020 | BRAC University

First Year Advising Team (FYAT), Summer 2020 | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
First Year Advising Team (FYAT), Summer 2020
Publish Date:
July 6th, 2020
Dear Fresher,
Brac University offers an extensive program of First Year Advising Team (FYAT) for all undergraduate students during their first year.
In FYAT program under Office of Academic Advising (OAA), each new student is assigned to a FYAT Group. Each Group is led by a Faculty Adviser and Peer Mentor.
What does the FYAT Faculty Adviser do?
The Faculty Adviser will act as individual adviser for new students during their first three semesters at Brac University. S/he will inform and support students during their transition to university learning and campus life, monitor academic progress, and provide academic guidance during the first year. The Faculty Advisers also advise students in developing academic goals and refer them to the appropriate support services of BracU.
What does the FYAT Peer Mentor do?
The Peer Mentor is the senior student of the university who provides transitional and social support, and  guides new students to various resources opportunities that are available on campus. The Peer Mentors can also be a point of contact and support in those areas of student and campus life where students prefer to seek information and suggestions from senior students.
Therefore, to be a part of Brac University FYAT Team all freshmen of Summer 2020 are required to be in a FYAT group. You will get the Group name, FYAT Adviser and Mentor in the FYAT
Web notice.
FYAT Notice
List of Mentors and Advisers
After getting the FYAT group you need to fill up the Google Form and Submit it.
The filled up forms will be sent to the Office of Academic Advising (OAA). FYAT mentor of each FYAT group will then communicate to the respective student
Form Submission Deadline:
July 12 (Sunday), 2020
Form link:
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/17Gm_wDD4XzjG3-sFEFogMmN-puTAkWsVxbit8n3SiL4/edit
All the best
Office of Academic Advising (OAA)
bracu-oaa@bracu.ac.bd