Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/academics/schools-and-departments/school-general-education/requirements
Page Title: Requirements | BRAC University

Requirements | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Students must complete courses in a sequential order. Once basic skill levels have been attained in reading comprehension, paper writing and public speaking, students can move on to courses that require more advanced skills such as writing short and long essays, writing research papers, quantitative reasoning, critical thinking, and public speaking in small and large group settings.
Students are required to complete 13 courses/39 credits from 5 streams.
Stream 1: Writing Comprehension
Students are required to take both the ENG courses
Stream 2: Math and Natural Sciences
Students are required to take a minimum of 2 courses
Stream 3: Arts and Humanities
BNG 103 and HUM 103 are compulsory. Students must take a minimum of one more course from this stream.
Stream 4: Social Sciences
EMB 101 is compulsory. After completing EMB 101, students must take a minimum of 1 more course from this stream.
Stream 5: Communities, Seeking Transformation
Students are required to complete a minimum of one CST from this stream.
The new GenEd has rolled out from Fall 20 and all students will follow the
new GenEd Streams
Students enrolled in and after Fall 20 will have to complete
39 credits (13 GenEd courses)
from their total credits to graduate. Any students enrolled before Fall 20 will complete
42 credits
as a part of their GenEd credit requirement. However, if students have
GenEd credits
left to complete, they will take their
remaining courses
new GedEd streams
, not the old one. Students enrolled prior to Fall 20 will receive GenEd credits if they decide to take the CST courses from Stream 5 which will be added towards the completion of their
Please remember that for students enrolled before Fall 20, the credits have not changed, their course choices have.
Request for Information