Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/academics/policies-and-procedures/coursesemester-drop-policy
Page Title: Course/Semester Drop Policy | BRAC University

Course/Semester Drop Policy | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Registration is a continuous process at BRAC University, beginning with the student's first day to register and continuing until the first day of classes for the semester. Once the semester begins, the process of changing the student's course schedule is referred to as dropping/adding courses. A student has several opportunities within a semester to drop a course, but different consequences apply at each stage. Before dropping a course, students should consult with their academic advisors. Dropping courses not only affects a student's academic progress, but also may have consequences for financial aid. There is no refund of tuition for individual courses dropped after the last day of the change of program period.
Ceasing/stopping to attend classes or simply notifying the instructor does not constitute dropping a course or a semester. If a student wants to drop a course (or courses), s/he must formally/ officially drop the course(s) from the semester other wise it will appear as an “F” grade on the transcript and affect the CGPA. If a student can not continue a semester for any reason must drop the semester.
Dropping a course during the change of academic calendar
A student may drop a course with or without refund within the calendar period of add/ drop of the semester. Courses dropped within this period do not appear on a student’s transcript and does not affect CGPA.
Dropping with W grade
After the late drop deadline, students may drop a course. Courses dropped after the late drop deadline but prior to the final drop deadline will be recorded on the transcript with the notation “W” (withdrew). Students are charged full tuition for individual courses from which they selectively withdraw. “W” grade appear on a student’s transcript but does not affect CGPA.
Dropping a course after the deadline
Student applies to drop a course(s) after the final drop deadline may be granted with the permission of the department only with documentation of extenuating circumstances (such as a serious illness or a crisis beyond the student's control or even for a wrong advising ).
Some courses can also be dropped with the permission of head the department. BRAC University has specific policy regarding courses dropping or replacing in this regard:
In case of department change, all courses that are not transferred or required for the accepting program will be dropped at the time of department change. Students need close monitoring and counseling while changing the department.
Equivalent and Elective courses, within the area of the program or out side the area, will be treated as same and can be dropped with the permission of head the department.
Courses that are not presently offered by the department may be dropped depending on the situations of the student and the departments.
Students dropping a course after the deadline will have to fill up a
Course Drop Form
with sufficient documents. Course dropped in such situation will not affect the CGPA and will not appear on transcript. Students have to follow the following directions for course drop:
Collect the form and fill it up accordingly
Take approval by the Dean/Chair of your respective Department
Submit the Form to the Registrar’s Office with Sufficient Documents.
Leave of Absence:
A student may be granted leave of absence or semester drop for a period of up to three consecutive semesters or one academic year, subject to the student meeting academic requirements. This arrangement does not apply to students who received academic probation or who have been expelled from the university on disciplinary grounds or excluded on academic grounds. The decision to grant leave of absence will rest with the Dean or Head of Department in consultation with the Registrar. A student granted leave of absence must register in the following semester immediately after the expiry of the leave period.
Students have to apply through the
Semester Drop Form
with sufficient documents for semester drop. Dropping a whole semester does not affect the CGPA and will not appear on the transcripts. Students have to follow the following directions for semester drop:
Verify your Medical Certificate/Documents along with your Health Card from BRAC University medical center (for medical ground)
Take approval of the course teacher/s (If student advised for any courses)
Take approval from the Dean/Chair. of your respective department
Take approval from the Registrar
Submit the Form to the Registrar’s Office with sufficient documents.
Request for Information