Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/node/28405
Page Title: Research | BRAC University

Research | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
BRAC University is the leading university in research investment according to University Grants Commission’s annual report 2019.
The BRAC Institute of Educational Development won the famous Yidan Prize for Educational Development for its multiple achievements.
The James P Grant School of Public Health was recognized Johns Hopkins University’s Global Health Now as a top School in the region.
The BRAC Institute of Governance and Development has just been recognized as one of the top 40 think tanks in terms of governance and transparency worldwide.
The Centre for Peace and Justice is internationally respected for its work to promote global peace and social justice through education and training, research and advocacy.
The University has recently entered a partnership with the University of Birmingham, UK to work on the strategy for the distribution of the Covid vaccine across Bangladesh.
BRAC University's commitment to academic excellence and research advancement is exemplified through its "Rewarding Quality Journal Publication" initiative, a response to the Government of Bangladesh’s encouragement for research initiatives. Among the four quartiles of journals i.e. Q1, Q2, Q3, and Q4, the top 25% of journals are designated as Q1 (Quartile 1). The prestige of Q1 journals is attributed to their wide recognition and significant impact on research. Hence, the objective for this award is to motivate the academic and research staff at BRAC University to contribute to the top-tier Q1 journals, representing the pinnacle of research impact in each field. The emphasis on Q1 journals underscores the University’s dedication to maintaining high standards and credibility in research output.
Research Grant Proposal
Research Strategy and Policies of BRAC University
Research Funding Opportunities at BRAC University
Evaluating Research Proposals
Research Strategic Framework
Research Seed Grant Initiative Call for Proposals
The three criteria
Research Excellence Awards Initiative Call for Proposals
Request for Information