Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/student-life
Page Title: Student Life | BRAC University

Student Life | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Campus life at BRAC University is a dynamic blend of academic excellence, cultural diversity, and community engagement. With numerous extracurricular activities, clubs, and events, the university encourages exploration beyond academics. From engaging lectures to vibrant cultural festivals.
Clubs and Organizations
BRAC University nurtures students to become future leaders, aligning with the institution's vision. To encourage active participation, it is mandatory for all students to enroll in at least one club or society.
Events and Festivals
Join us at BRAC University for exciting events and festivals that bring our community together in celebration, culture, and fun!
Accommodation
BRAC University offers dedicated accommodation for international students, with separate dormitories for male and female students.
Student Services
Campus Facilities
Counseling and Wellness Center
Every individual has the potential to rejoice in the beauty of life and can overcome challenges. University life's challenges can often be difficult
Medical Centre
BRAC University medical center provides medical services to students, faculty and staff. The center is well equipped to provided necessary medical advice and services
Office of Academic Advising (OAA)
Office of Academic Advising (OAA) of BRAC University links the students to all the facilities and resources that are available in the university
Office of Co-Curricular Activities (OCA)
BRAC University believes in a holistic approach towards education and grooming future leaders who will possess high moral values, have empathy, more informed
International and Scholarship Office
International and Scholarship Office of BRAC University is at the center of aspects of management and student relations, student-conduct, consultations,
Transport Service
BRAC University offers its own affordable, safe and comfortable transport service (buses with air conditioning) for students
Dress Code
As a leading private university in the country and one that strives to create educated youth ready to face the challenges of a highly competitive world
Your journey with BRAC University doesn’t end at graduation; it’s a lifelong connection. Whether you’re advancing your career, engaging with the community, or supporting
Latest News and Events
Monon wins championship of Cultural Fest 2.0
December 9th, 2024
BRAC University alumnus receives partial scholarship at Texas State University
October 8th, 2023
First Year Advising Team (FYAT), Summer 2020
July 6th, 2020
Request for Information