Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/about/people/mohammad-mujibul-haque-phd
Page Title: Mohammad Mujibul Haque, PhD | BRAC University

Mohammad Mujibul Haque, PhD | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Mohammad Mujibul Haque, PhD
Professor and Dean
BRAC Business School
mmujibul.haque@bracu.ac.bd
Level: 5, Room: 5A17
Kha-224 Merul Badda
Dhaka 1212. Bangladesh
Professor Mujibul Haque
joined Brac Business School (BBS) as a Professor of Finance and Associate Dean of Academics in May 2019. Previously, he has enjoyed his academic experiences at KIMEP and KBTU in Kazakhstan; Wichita State University and Texas Tech University in the USA; and North South University and Southeast University in Bangladesh. Prior to full-time teaching, he obtained MS and PhD degrees in Business Administration (with Finance specializations) from Texas Tech University, USA; and MBA degree (with Marketing specialization) from the Institute of Business Administration (IBA), University of Dhaka, Bangladesh.
Over the last twenty-plus years, through teaching a wide-variety of Finance courses – with due focus on theories, applications, contemporary issues, and local and regional financial systems and practices – he has been honored and delighted to exchange ideas, knowledge and experiences with thousands of bright minds of global academic and business communities, at bachelor, master and doctoral levels.
Although teaching is his foremost joy and passion, he has also been privileged to serve in various administrative capacities over the years. These include Chair of Accounting and Finance Department, Associate Dean, Associate Dean of Academic Affairs, Associate Dean of Graduate Programs, Associate Dean in-charge of Accreditation, Director of DBA, MBA and Executive MBA Programs, and Director of Professional Development Programs. In these roles, he has been engaged heavily in many aspects of academic affairs – particularly, in program management (quality assurance of learning and teaching, accreditation, operation and promotion); new program development (designing, licensing and launching) and management; and academic policy formulation and implementation – at department, school/college and university levels. Also, he has been involved deeply in strategic management process at all three levels.
His research interests and consultancy experiences are in the fields of Asymmetric Information and Development of Efficient Financial Markets and Institutions, Financial Literacy and Well-Being, Economic Policy Analysis, Financial Crisis: Causes, Consequences and Policy Implications, Corporate Governance, Corporate Social Responsibilities, and International Parity Conditions and Arbitrage.
in Business Administration, Specialization in Finance, Texas Tech University, USA, 1999
Dissertation Topic:
"Hedging Recurring Interest Rate Exposures: An Evaluation of Alternative Strategies with Eurodollar Futures Contracts"
in Business Administration, Specialization in Finance, Texas Tech University, 1992
, Major in Marketing, IBA, University of Dhaka, Bangladesh, 1988
Lee, S. H., &
Haque, M. M.
(2015). Does bank lending rate propagate economic cycles in developing countries with high foreign debts?
International Journal of Business & Public Administration
(1), 104–123. Retrieved from
http://www.iabpad.com/does-bank-lending-rate-propagate-economic-cycles-i...
Kretzschmar, G. L., Simpson, E., & Haque, M. (2013). Russia’s resource capitalism—market vs political signalling.
Energy Policy
, 771–782.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enpol.2013.04.082
, & Bhatti, R. (2013). Testing conventional and ex-ante purchasing power parity for three CIS countries.
AFBE Journal
(1), 63–73.
(2012). The loan-bond spread as a predictor of real economic activity: Evidences from 20 European countries.
Journal of International Business and Economics
(2011). The asymmetric cyclical effects of bank capital on bank lending: Evidences from 6 CIS countries.
Journal of International Finance Studies
(2011). The Pro-cyclical effects of bank capital on bank lending: A case of Kazakhstan.
International Review of Business Research Papers
(2011). The role of term spread on real economic activity: A comparative analysis for Kazakhstan and Russia.
Doctor of Business Administration
• Theory of Finance
• Corporate Finance
• Selected Topics in Finance
Master of Business Administration
• Managerial Finance
• Advanced Corporate Finance
• Investments
• International Finance
• Financial Markets and Institutions
• Financial Derivatives
• Contemporary Issues in Finance
• Thesis and Internship Supervision
Executive MBA
• Financing and Investment Decisions
Bachelor of Business Administration
• Principles of Finance
• International Financial Management
• Introduction to Derivatives
• Cases in Finance
• Quantitative Investment Analysis
• "Best Graduate Teacher of the Bang College of Business" KIMEP University, 2006 and 2007
• "Best Teacher of Finance" Finance Student Association, Texas Tech University, 1997
• Service Awards: “Best Service to the Bang College of Business”, KIMEP, 2006
Multiple Teaching and Service Awards