Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/academics/policies-and-procedures
Page Title: Policies and Procedures | BRAC University

Policies and Procedures | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Undergraduate Programs
Absence/Semester
A student may be granted leave of absence or semester drop for a period of up to three consecutive semesters or one academic year, subject to the student meeting academic requirements. This arrangement does not apply to students who received academic probation or who have been expelled from the university on disciplinary grounds or excluded on academic grounds. The decision to grant leave of absence will rest with the Dean or Head of Department in consultation with the Registrar. A student granted leave of absence must register in the following semester immediately after the expiry of the leave period.
Expulsion for disciplinary reasons and exclusion for academic failure
A student who has been expelled from the University for a disciplinary cause will not be re-admitted to the University except with the exceptional approval of the Vice-Chancellor, who will specify any conditions for re-admission. Any re-admission will be reported to the Admissions Committee. The student will be entitled, on expulsion, to a transcript with details of any academic credit awarded, subject to paying any outstanding fees or other dues to the university.
A student who has been excluded from the University on account of academic failure may be re-admitted to the University only with exceptional approval from the Chair of the Admissions Committee, the Registrar and the Dean or the Chair of Department to which the applicant seeks admission. Any such re-admission will be reported to the Admissions Committee.
Student Advising
Good advising is critical for successful graduation. For most students, University will be the first time that they will be responsible for things such as selecting courses or choosing a major. An academic advisor a faculty member can help with these and other decisions; however, advising is a two-way street. Students and advisors share the responsibility for successful advising.
Student Drop out
The Registrar may withdraw a student who does not register for two consecutive semesters without prior approval. The student will be entitled to apply for a transcript of any credits obtained subject to paying any outstanding fees or other dues to the university. The Registrar will inform the school/department of the withdrawal.
Any student so withdrawn must apply for readmission as a new student if s/he wishes to return to the university. The applicant will write to the Registrar who, together with the Chair of the Admissions Committee and the Dean or Chair of Department, will decide the form of any admissions assessment to be undertaken and any other conditions attached to readmission. The standard admissions fee will be payable. The student will resume the student number previously allocated to him or her. The student will receive any academic credit previously awarded provided s/he remains within the maximum registration period.
Late Registration
The Registrar may only allow the students to register beyond the published deadline after consultation with the Dean or Head of Department. The student will be subject to a late registration fee, to be determined from time to time by the university management. The Registrar may excuse the late registration fee on the grounds of mitigating circumstances that prevented the student from registering on time because of significant reasons beyond his or her control.
Methods and Medium of Instructions
The university follows modern teaching methods including interactive Internet, simulation, lab work, case analysis and field study. A special feature of BRAC University teaching is the workshop/lab sessions designed to assist students in learning application of concepts and theories. The medium of instructions in BRAC University is English.
Grades Without Numerical Value:
I: Incomplete
W: Withdrawal
Pass/Fail Option:
A course may be taken for a pass/fail grade, providing that the instructor approves the option and the student carries 12 credits for regular letter grades in that semester. A maximum of 16 credits may be taken for credit with the pass/fail grading option. No more than four credits may be taken with the pass/fail grading option in any one semester. Departments may not approve the pass/fail grading option for some courses counting towards the major.
Incomplete Grade: An Incomplete (I) grade is assigned only when a student has failed to complete one or more requirements of the course for an unavoidable reason/accidental circumstance and has applied for I grade. The students who are permitted to appear in make up examination(s) will be assigned an 'I' grade for that course and this grade will stay until the student appears in the make up examination at the first available opportunity; if s/he fails to appear in the make up examination the 'I' grade will automatically be converted to 'F' grade.
Withdrawal (W): is assigned to a student who withdraws from the course within the deadline for withdrawal with 'W' grade. A student who withdraws after this date will earn the grade based on his performance before his withdrawal. Exception to this rule may be made on medical ground and on terms and condition imposed by the University.
The curriculum for degree requirements of graduate programs vary depending upon the degree offered.
Pass/Fail Option
A course may be taken for a pass/fail grade providing that the instructor approves the option and the student carries 12 credits for regular letter grades in that semester. Within the total credits required for a degree, a maximum of 16 credits may be taken for credit with pass/fail grading option. No more than 4 credits may be taken with the pass/fail grading option in any one semester. Departments may not approve the pass/fail grading option for some courses counting towards the major.
Incomplete Grade
: An Incomplete (I) grade is assigned only when a student has failed to complete one or more requirements of the course for extreme medical conditions OR death in the immediate family during the semester and has applied for I grade. The students who are permitted to appear in Make up examination(s) will be assigned an 'I' grade for that course and this grade will stay until the student appears in the make up examination at the first available opportunity; if s/he fails to appear in the make up examination the 'I' grade will automatically be converted to 'F' grade.
Withdrawal (W)
: is assigned to a student who withdraws from the course within the deadline for withdrawal with W grade. A student who withdraws after this date will earn the grade based on his performance before his withdrawal. Exception to this rule may be made on medical ground and on terms and condition imposed by the University.
Review Procedure
The Committee on Academic Standard administers the grading regulationand reviews course grades submitted by Departments.
Academic Standing
Students are expected to maintain a consistently high standard in their academic work. They should be taking the requisite number of courses and maintain satisfactory grades in these courses. In particular students are expected to maintain a CGPA of 2.50 (both semester and cumulative), otherwise they will be put on probation for the following semester. If a student fails to maintain a CGPA of 2.50 in the two consecutive semesters then the university will review the student's record and recommend further action which may include withdrawing from the university.
Remedial Courses
Many students joining the university would be coming from Bangla medium schools and therefore would have to adjust to English as the medium of instruction. They may be asked to attend Remedial English courses during or proceeding the semester in which they take regular courses. Students from non-science background or who are weak in Mathematics may be asked to attend a remedial course in Mathematics. The University may ask the students to attend other remedial courses if necessary.
Request for Information