Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/avilable-program/master-arts-teaching-english-speakers-other-languages-ma-tesol
Page Title: Master of Arts in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (MA in TESOL) | BRAC University

Master of Arts in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (MA in TESOL) | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Master of Arts in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (MA in TESOL)
Program Overview
Are you looking for an MA program in the field of language education that offers a wide range of career opportunities? Then, MA in TESOL is the right choice for you. This degree program blends linguistic, pedagogical, and contextual aspects of language learning and develops highly competent teachers who demonstrate informed professionalism.
You will learn about the English language system and its theories. Also, you will engage in classroom teaching and reflective practices under the supervision of experienced educators, as well as learn research skills. And you will develop these skills through critical analysis of the unique EFL context of Bangladesh.
Your understanding of the connection among theories, practice and research will increase your employability in diverse fields. You will be able to teach English to any age group in various settings, develop educational materials and work in leadership positions in institutions or organizations that contribute to the education sector.
Program Highlights
1. Discover the teacher in you through innovative teaching assignments and practices
2. Enjoy the freedom to learn from class observations of EAP and ESP courses conducted by dynamic language teachers
3. Learn from renowned educators from home and abroad
4. Avail opportunities to develop your academic writing skills
5. Enjoy group projects and seek guidance to present your classroom projects at conferences
6. Develop research skills and specialist knowledge by investigating your research interests in depth, ranging from policies to classroom implications, from classroom challenges to language pedagogy, etc.
7. Turn your research interest into an MA thesis under the guidance of experienced research mentors and enjoy being published
8. Engage in professional development opportunities by attending in-house workshops, and webinars
9. Build a professional network of prominent figures in the ELT field through our connections
10. Join the English language teachers community in Bangladesh through our teachers and alumni
Career Opportunities
The MA-TESOL program will make you a versatile teacher, a reflective practitioner and a critical thinker who investigates classroom challenges to devise best practices. The multitude of tasks you will carry out as part of your courses will help you develop soft skills, making you a desired candidate in the 21st-century workplace. You will be valued for your interpersonal communication skills, critical thinking, and digital literacy, to mention only a few, and thus allow you to choose from a wide range of career options.
Alumni voices:
Master of Arts in TESOL at Brac University is ever best program for transforming a student into a skilled, committed, dedicated and promising teacher and researcher. I have met the best teachers and learning buddies there.  It has shown me the path to PhD at an early age. I always feel proud of being an alumnus of MA in TESOL program. (Dr. Md. Mahadhi Hasan, Assistant Professor, Department of English, Southeast University)
“It was a life-changing degree.  Those who are in the teaching profession should earn this degree. It has been very helpful for my professional development.” (Md. Saidur Rahman, Manager M&E and MIS ( Education Sector, BRAC-HCMP, Cox's Bazar)
“I was blessed to join the community and alumni of Brac University. MA-TESOL has enriched my teaching experience and philosophy and has helped me find confidence.” (Dieudonne KAREKEZI, Assistant Lecturer, University of Rwanda)
Placement and Further Study Opportunities
The aspiring students for this program comprise:
Fresh graduates with 4 year Bachelor's degrees in either English Literature or Applied Linguistics or Linguistics or Education;
Professional English teachers in schools, colleges, or universities possessing any of the above-mentioned backgrounds;
Students from non-English backgrounds.
Which areas you can work in with an MA in TESOL?
curriculum design
material development
administrative positions in educational institutions or organizations
public relations
PhD studies
Graduate Destinations:
Roles our alumni have taken on include:
English teachers at tertiary institutions
English teachers at primary and secondary level English medium schools
leadership positions such as school head or coordinator
researcher
entrepreneur
content writers
copy editors
news anchor
Manager, NGO, Education sector
translator
IELTS Trainer
technical writer
Course-based Program Structure
MA in TESOL
A detailed structure of the program
First Semester (15-18 Credits)
TSL501: Foundation of Linguistics: Syntax and Semantics, Phonology and Morphology
(3 Credits)
TSL502: Methods and Practices of Teaching ESL (3 Credits)
TSL503: Syllabus, Curriculum and Materials Design and Evaluation (3 Credits)
TSL504: Second Language Acquisition and Psycholinguistics (3 Credits)
Elective 1: XXX
Elective 2: XXX
Second Semester (12-15 Credits)
TSL505: Language Testing and Evaluation (3 Credits)
TSL506: Use of Technology in ELT (3 Credits)
TSL507: Teaching Practicum (3 Credits)
TSL509: Classroom Research and Research Methods in ELT (3 Credits)
Elective 3: XXX
Elective 4: XXX
Third Semester (6 Credits)
TSL508: Teaching Practicum 2 (3 Credits)
TSL510: Dissertation (3 Credits)
Final Semester (3 Credits)
Elective courses:
TSL601: Sociolinguistics and New Englishes
TSL602: Pragmatics and Discourse Analysis
TSL603: English for Specific and Academic Purposes
TSL604: ELT Leadership and Management
Course Details
TSL 501: FOUNDATION OF LINGUISTICS: SYNTAX AND SEMANTICS; PHONETICS, PHONOLOGY AND MORPHOLOGY
This course provides an introduction to the discipline of Linguistics. Students will learn the basic concepts and methods used by linguists in the scientific study of human language. Students will become familiar with how linguists approach and analyze language in primary fields of linguistic analysis, such as morphology (word structure), syntax (phrases and sentences), semantics (meaning), phonetics (types of sound), and phonology (rules of phonetic processes), language in ecology, and language death.
TSL502: METHODS AND PRACTICES OF TEACHING ESL
This course provides an introduction to the methods, approaches and techniques of teaching English as a second language, and the teaching techniques of the four language skills in an integrated manner with teaching grammar, vocabulary and pronunciation. Students also learn to design lesson plans as per their preferred teaching method, approach or techniques.
TSL503:   SYLLABUS DESIGN AND MATERIALS DEVELOPMENT
This course looks at the assumptions underlying the design of a syllabus and examines the various types of English language syllabuses on offer. It studies the implementation and evaluation of syllabuses. The course also links the relevance of the syllabus to existing teaching materials by exploring the principles of materials development. These are related to the evaluation, adaptation, and supplementation of TESOL course books and materials. Students will be introduced to the idea of developing and producing appropriate materials themselves.
TSL 504:   SECOND LANGUAGE ACQUISITION AND PSYCHOLINGUISTICS
This course provides students with psychological, sociological and linguistic perspectives on the acquisition of a second language with particular emphasis on English as a Second/Foreign language. Particular importance is given to the understanding of individual learner differences that affect second language acquisition, such as age, intelligence, creativity, language aptitude, mindset, motivation, learning strategies, learner beliefs, social context etc. Students will gain a comprehensive understanding of how humans learn languages, along with the internal and external factors which influence the learning of both their first and second languages.
TSL 505: LANGUAGE TESTING AND EVALUATION
The course focuses on current theories of language testing and provides students with the essential knowledge and practical skills in the area of language test design and administration and evaluation of language proficiency. Emphasis is given on the types of language testing techniques, principles of language test construction, principles of language test validation, methods for analyzing and interpreting test results and assessment and evaluation of language proficiency.
TSL 506: USE OF TECHNOLOGY IN ELT
This course covers the characteristics of technological aids, such as nonlinearity, multimodality, and interactivity, and the potential and pedagogical implications of these aids for language teaching and learning, specifically focusing on how their use can be related to theories of language learning, as well as on the criteria for evaluating their effectiveness. While the emphasis is given on the use of the latest technologies, such as the internet (including computer- mediated communication and online communities), blogging, and multimedia, the course also covers the use of word processors, television, and video for language teaching.
TSL 507:   Teaching Practicum 1
Teaching Practicum-1 requires students to demonstrate their understanding of the principles, methods and techniques of language teaching. It allows students to reflect closely on the teaching-learning and material development strategies they have learned they have learned thus far, and teach EFL learners from school levels using independently developed lessons, overseen by experienced teacher(s) and academic mentor(s). Students also have the opportunity to review video recordings of their own and peers’ teaching to write the reports, focusing on the effectiveness of lesson planning, the meaningfulness of warming up activities, tasks/ activities used in class; use of and managing pair/group activities; monitoring activities, providing feedback, and making decisions about modes and materials for teaching. Hence, the focus is on accommodating more space for students to facilitate practice. Students reflect and write reports on their own and peers’/other teachers’ teaching in assigned weeks. There are weekly sessions with supervisor(s) to discuss students’ concerns, reflections and accomplishments in the classroom.
TSL 508:   Teaching Practicum 2
Teaching Practicum-2, a sequel of TP-1 having an identical pattern, allows students to plan and teach independently, overseen by an experienced teacher as a supervisor and mentor. However, TP-2 has been designed with a focus on undergraduate-level EAP courses and professional-level ESP courses, In addition to the duties of the first practicum that included observation, creating lesson plans, and teaching, efforts will be made to allow student-teachers to be involved in continuous assessment of learners, designing materials, testing and grading, record keeping and other managerial tasks like a teaching assistant, or trainee, or an intern. Therefore, an individual student is expected to act as a shadow teacher with a designated faculty member who
currently teaches EAP and/or ESP courses. TSL 509: CLASSROOM RESEARCH AND RESEARCH METHODS IN ELT This course teaches students about the types of research, their purposes, the different stages in the research process, and how to write a research proposal. They will choose a topic of interest, review existing abstracts and research reports, formulate research questions and construct hypotheses. They will know how to do different kinds of research- survey, empirical, experimental and action research in second language classrooms. They will design a research methodology, identify the variables, submit a research proposal, learn how to collect data, and analyse and interpret it to answer the research questions in order to justify or nullify their hypotheses. At the end of this course, they will conduct an Action Research, and submit the report for assessment.
TSL 510: DISSERTATION
The Dissertation written by each student must be an original empirical research underpinned by a comprehensive literature survey, conducted independently on the basis of several theories which he/she had already learnt. A student investigates and reports the findings on the basis of data he/she collects to answer his/her research questions. The student is expected to write a well-conceived and appropriately executed paper within a limit between 10,000 and 12,000 words in the light of research skills he/she had acquired in the TSL 509 course. Consequently, the dissertation is expected to contribute to the student’s professional development.
TSL 601: SOCIOLINGUISTICS AND NEW ENGLISHES
The course focuses on the relationship between language and society. It provides a brief introduction to various terms and concepts used in the field. For example, it will focus on variety, dialects, register, styles, standard language, speech communities, diglossia, etc. The course examines and discusses major sociolinguistic issues such as language planning and policy, pidgins and creoles, language use in bi/multilingual communities, language maintenance and shift, etc. It also explores the spread of English in the appropriate teaching of English in varied contexts.
TSL 602: PRAGMATICS AND DISCOURSE ANALYSIS
This course is divided into two parts: discourse analysis, and pragmatics and implicit meaning. In discourse analysis, the topics covered are discourse versus text, text-forming devices, text and context, spoken versus written languages, types of discourse, cohesion and coherence, units of analysis in discourse and genre analysis. In Pragmatics, the topics include definition, scope and approaches of pragmatics, deficit reference, limits of indexicality, speech acts, perlocutions, illocutions, felicity conditions, direct and indirect illocutions, Grice’s theory of conversational implicatures, politeness strategies, etc.
TSL 603:  TEACHING ENGLISH FOR ACADEMIC &amp; SPECIFIC PURPOSES
This course is a methodological innovation for teaching English as a second or foreign language. It is composed of two branches of language training: English for Professional Purposes and English for Academic Purposes. The course, therefore, is a learner-centered approach that aims at developing learners’ academic and communicative competence in a specific discipline, such as engineering, IT technology, business, law, medicine, and agriculture. It also attempts to improve students’ knowledge and practice of discipline-specific conventions of academic writing.
TSL 604:  ELT LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT
This course enables the participants to understand the process of creating effective organizational processes and performance by using appropriate leadership styles, planning, decision-making strategies, motivation, and communication.
What does TESOL stand for?
Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages
Who can Apply?
-	BA (Honors) in English Literature/ Language/ Linguistics/ Education or any other subjects
-	BA (Honors) in other subjects (will require to do extra credits)
-	Fresh graduates and in-service teachers
-	English teachers from schools, colleges, madrasas
What are the courses in the MA-TESOL program?
Courses in the MA in TESOL program of BIL:
MA in TESOL program offers courses ensuring a blend of 3 crucial components for English language teachers and practitioners: theoretical knowledge, hands-on teaching practices and research.
The courses are:
https://www.bracu.ac.bd/academics/institutes/brac-institute-languages/ma-tesol
https://www.bracu.ac.bd/sites/default/files/uploads/2025/01/28/brochure%20Full-compressed.pdf
What is the class timing of the MA in the TESOL program?
MA in TESOL class time:
10:00 am to 12:50 pm
03:00 pm to 05:50 pm
Sunday/Thursday:
04:30 pm to 07:20 pm
What is the duration of the program?
The duration of the MA in TESOL programme is 1 year and 6 months.
What is the cost of the program?
Tuition Fee: BDT 6,600 per credit
Semester Fee: BDT 4,000
Course Waiver: 20%–40%, based on undergraduate academic results
Scholarship: Merit-based scholarships are available (up to 100%)
Credit Requirement: Students from English or related disciplines must complete 39 credits, while those from non-English backgrounds are required to complete 45 credits
For details:
https://www.bracu.ac.bd/admissions/tuition-and-fees
How many semesters do you have in a year?
We have 3 semesters a year: Spring, Summer and Fall.
How many courses should I study in one semester to complete my degree in 1 year and 6 months?
A student should take 3 to 4 courses every semester to complete the program in 1 year and 6 months. Minimum courses to study in one semester is two.
Note that studying 2 courses each semester will lengthen the duration of the program.
Do you class on weekends only?
In your entire program, only one or two courses may be scheduled on Sunday or Thursday afternoon.
Can I do a job while studying in the MA-TESOL program?
Any teaching-related job may help you relate to the ELT theories and perform better in the practicum courses. Having a teaching job may also help with data collection in the research components of the program.
Do I have to attend all classes?
75% attendance is mandatory in all courses. Also, students are discouraged from missing classes on important days such as when quizzes, presentations, exams, etc. are scheduled.
What career prospects are available for a graduate with an MA in TESOL degree?
An MA degree in TESOL helps develop the skills, knowledge and mindset required to excel in English teaching-related jobs.
Our alumni are proud entrepreneurs, university lecturers, PhD researchers, English teachers and academic coordinators, head teachers and teacher trainers at various English and Bangla medium schools, project directors, curriculum designers and material developers at renowned NGOs, facilitators at various online and in-site training institutes, IELTS trainers, etc.
Many of our current students and recent graduates are also working on various BIL projects as research assistants and teaching assistants.
Why is the MA in TESOL program of BRAC University worth studying?
The MA in TESOL program is unique for several crucial reasons. Firstly, the MA-TESOL curriculum is designed to impart (1) knowledge of English teaching of the modern times, (2) teacher skills that are required in the job market, and (3) a knowledge base for research.
Secondly, this program offers two teaching practicum courses that address the needs of individual students and helps improve their teacher qualities through individualised feedback.
Third, serving society is one of the core ethos of BRAC University. The MA-TESOL program integrates issues of social justice and sustainable development in its classroom discussion and practices.
How can I decide if I should study MA in ELT or MA in TESOL?
An MA in ELT or TESOL may have overlapping objectives. To decide which program is best suited for you, you can do the following:
1)	Compare the courses of the programs.
2)	Notice if the program addresses your needs for theoretical knowledge, hands-on teaching experience and research.
How do I apply for the TESOL program?
Visit https://www.bracu.ac.bd/admissions/apply-now and complete the online form
Can payment be made online?
Yes, from anywhere in Bangladesh from selected banks.
Is there any opportunity to transfer credit from another university?
Yes, you can apply for Course Waiver. If our Committee approved then
What is the age range for the program?
There is no age restriction.
What is the admission test process?
Interested candidates must take an admission test.
The admission test has two segments:
a one-hour written test and a viva.
The written test asks to write two compositions on generally known issues.
The written test and the viva are held on the same day.