Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/about/people/iftekhar-ul-karim-phd
Page Title: Iftekhar Ul Karim, PhD | BRAC University

Iftekhar Ul Karim, PhD | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Iftekhar Ul Karim, PhD
Assistant Professor
BRAC Business School
iftekhar.karim@bracu.ac.bd
Level: 5, Room: 5A10
Kha-224 Merul Badda
Dhaka 1212. Bangladesh
Dr. Iftekhar Ul Karim
is currently an Assistant Professor at BRAC Business School, BRAC University, leveraging a diverse background that encompasses academia, research, teaching, consulting, diplomacy, and various international development and business organizations across multiple countries. He earned his Ph.D. in Management from LUISS University in Rome, Italy, as a LUISS Doctoral Fellow. He also holds a Master’s degree in Management and Consumer Studies from Wageningen University in the Netherlands, awarded through the prestigious Dutch Govt. Huygens Scholarship, and another Master’s in Leadership and Organization for Sustainability from Malmö University in Sweden, as a Swedish Institute (SI) Future Global Leader under the Swedish Govt. SI scholarship. Before joining BRAC University, Dr. Karim served as a Trade Facilitator at the Swedish Embassy in Dhaka, where he played a key role in export promotion, trade facilitation, and trade diplomacy. Additionally, he was an Australian Government Endeavor Executive Fellow in Melbourne and a British Council Charles Wallace Professional Visiting Fellow in London.
Ph.D. in Management
(Entrepreneurship)
, LUISS University, Rome, Italy
(2017-2022)
Dissertation - “Entrepreneurship in Immigrant Communities: The Case of Ethnic Enclaves”
Masters - II
Malmö University,
, Master of Arts (M.A.) in Leadership for Sustainability, (2014 – 2015); with focus on Leadership and Organization
Masters – I
Wageningen University
, Wageningen, the
Netherlands
, Master of Science (M.Sc.) in Management, Economics and Consumer Studies (MME), (2011 – 2013); with research chair group of Marketing and Consumer Behavior (MCB)
Book Chapter
Karim, I. U.
(2019). Contemporary social entrepreneurship. In A. S. Haque & A. F. Ahmad (Eds.),
Diverse Perspective On Governance in Asia
. Osder Publications.
, Khurshid, I. & Huq. S. (2017, November). Exploring the Tech-based Disruptive Entrepreneurship Ecosystem. In A. Raihan & M.K. Aaref (Ed.),
Unlocking Catalytic Insights – Study of Entrepreneurial Ecosystem & Suggested Sustainable Changes at the Policy Levels
(pp. 58 - 63). Dhaka, Bangladesh: Junction Ventures
Newspaper/Magazine Articles
(2024, September 24). Dr Yunus at UNGA 2024: A pivotal moment for Bangladesh’s trade diplomacy.
The Daily Star
https://www.thedailystar.net/opinion/views/news/dr-yunus-unga-2024-pivot...
(2024, September 10). Bangladesh at 50 years with the United Nations.
https://www.thedailystar.net/opinion/views/news/bangladesh-50-years-the-...
(2024, September 5). International Day of Charity 2024. Preparing Generation Alpha for a Charitable Future.
https://www.thedailystar.net/opinion/views/news/preparing-generation-alp...
Ahmed, R., &
(2008). BRAC EDF ’ s Rendezvous with Mr . Fazle Hasan Abed.
The Daily Star Campus
https://archive.thedailystar.net/campus/2008/06/05/feature_BRAC.htm
Shamim, M. R., &
(2008, June 15). Model WTO 2008: St.Gallen & Geneva, Switzerland.
https://archive.thedailystar.net/campus/2008/06/03/feature_WTO.htm
Bilateral Trade Publications:
Sweden Bangladesh Business Guide, Edition: 2024-2025. Embassy of Sweden, Dhaka and Swedish Invest and Trade Council - Business Sweden in New Delhi, India.
Sweden Bangladesh Business Guide, Edition: 2022-2023. Embassy of Sweden, Dhaka and Swedish Invest and Trade Council - Business Sweden in New Delhi, India.
• Entrepreneurship and International Business
• Training and Development
• Strategic Management
• Leadership and Business Sustainability
International Conference proceedings
(2020, July). Entrepreneurship in Immigrant Communities: The Case of Ethnic Enclaves, Short Paper presented at the Proceedings of the 36th European Group for Organizational Studies (EGOS) Colloquium, 30 Jun - 4 Jul. Hamburg: Universität Hamburg.
(2019, June). Entrepreneurship Themes around Ethnic Enclaves in Capital Cities, Research presented at the Proceedings of the Capital Business Forum, 4th Edition, 18-19 June. Rome: LUISS University.
(2017, April). Success and Failure of Entrepreneurship Ecosystem in Relation to Youth Leadership, Paper presented at the Proceedings of the 7th Global Business Research Conference (ISBN: 978-1-925488-36-4), 28-29 April. Dhaka: Global Research Institute for Business Academics.
(2017, March). Child Labor in Ready-made Garment (RMG) Industry. Presentation at the International Development Youth Forum (IDYF) 2017, Case Analysis Lecture Series, University of Tokyo, 11-18 March. Tokyo: National Olympic Memorial Youth Center (NYC).
. (2017, February). Youth Entrepreneurship and Leadership (YEL) Model of Oaktree (Australia). Paper presented at the Proceedings of the International Conference on Knowledge Transfer (Challenges to understand and meet the needs of growing youth population in the context of changing world session), East West University (EWU), 17-18 February (Abstract 7: pp. 40). Dhaka: East West University Center for Research and Training (EWUCRT).
(2016, December). Classical relevance to contemporary Social entrepreneurship. Paper presented at the Proceedings of the International Conference on Insearch 2016: 3rd International Integrative Research Conference on Development, Governance and Transformation (NGOs and Social Entrepreneurship session), 27-28 December (Abstract: pp. 54). Comilla BARD: International Network for Integrative Research.
(2016, February). Portraying conflicts among project stakeholders. Paper presented at the Proceedings of the International Conference on Sustainable Development: Societies on the brink of new challenges of Sustainability (Business and Sustainability session), 4-5 February (Abstract: pp. 17). Dhaka: Centre for Sustainable Development (CSD), ULAB.
• Fully-funded LUISS Doctoral Scholarship (2017-2021) – awarded through Confindustria - Italian Confederation of Industries/Friends of LUISS Association Fellowship scheme for Ph.D. study and research at LUISS University in Rome, Italy.
• Fully-funded Swedish Govt. SI Masters scholarship (2014-2015) – awarded through Swedish Institute (SI) under Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs for Master’s program as SI Future Global Leader at Malmo University in Sweden
• Fully-funded Dutch Govt. International Huygens Scholarship (2011-2013) – awarded through Dutch Ministry of Education, Culture, and Science (OCW) for Master’s program at Wageningen University in the Netherlands
• Charles Wallace Professional Visiting Fellowship at UK Youth in London (2016) – awarded through Charles Wallace Trust and British Council.
• Fully-funded Australian Govt. Endeavour Executive Fellowship (2016) – awarded through Australian Govt. Education Department in Melbourne, Australia
• EMK-Junction Entrepreneurship Research Fellowship as Lead Researcher at University of Liberal Arts Bangladesh (ULAB) (2017) – awarded through American Edward M. Kennedy (EMK) Center and DNet/Junction.
• Australia Awards Global Network (Aus. Govt.)
• Huygens Talent Circle (HUTAC) – The Netherlands