Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/first-year-advising-team-fyatspring-2026
Page Title: First Year Advising Team (FYAT),Spring 2026 | BRAC University

First Year Advising Team (FYAT),Spring 2026 | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
First Year Advising Team (FYAT),Spring 2026
Publish Date:
Monday, January 26, 2026 - 19:45
Dear Fresher,
BRAC University offers an extensive program of First Year Advising Team (FYAT) for all undergraduate students during their first year.
In FYAT program, under Office of Academic Advising (OAA), each new student is assigned to a FYAT Group. Each Group is led by a Faculty Adviser and Peer Mentor.
What does the FYAT Faculty Adviser do?
The Faculty Adviser will act as individual adviser for new students during their first three semesters at BRAC University. S/he will inform and support students during their transition to university learning and campus life, monitor academic progress, and provide academic guidance during the first year. The Faculty Advisers also advise students in developing academic goals and refer them to the appropriate support services of BRAC University.
What does the FYAT Peer Mentor do?
The Peer Mentor is the senior student of the university who provides transitional and social support, and guides new students to various resources and opportunities that are available on campus. The Peer Mentors can also be a point of contact and support in those areas of student and campus life where students prefer to seek information and suggestions from senior students.
Therefore, to be a part of BRAC University FYAT, all freshmen of Spring 2026 are required to be in a FYAT group. You will get the Group name, FYAT Adviser and Mentor in the
FYAT Web notice.
After getting the FYAT group you need to fill up the Google Form and submit it.
The filled-up forms will be sent to the Office of Academic Advising (OAA). FYAT mentor of each FYAT group will then communicate with the respective student.
Form Submission Deadline:
Tuesday, 3rd February, 2026
Form link:
https://forms.gle/xYBNeazKjLB4asyY8
All the best
Office of Academic Advising (OAA)
bracu-oaa@bracu.ac.bd
FYAT Web Notice of Spring 2026