Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/academics/centres/centre-entrepreneurship-development
Page Title: Centre for Entrepreneurship Development | BRAC University

Centre for Entrepreneurship Development | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Centre for Entrepreneurship Development
Entrepreneurship plays an essential role in ensuring a strong resource for economic development and it is the key to high growth of economy in a country. It is also considered as the root of our economy. With a growing economy like Bangladesh, having an increasing youth population, entrepreneurs will be a key driving force to meet the needs of the industry and economy. It has the ability to foster growth and alleviate poverty. One of the major problems of entrepreneurship development in our country is the absence of the entrepreneurial skills in majority of the entrepreneurs. In line with this, BRAC University, first time in Bangladesh, came-up with an idea to establish a centre for entrepreneurship development with a commitment to contribute to the development of entrepreneurship in Bangladesh.
Afshana Choudhury
Head, Centre for Entrepreneurship Development, BRAC University
Mission of the CED
Helping people help themselves
” through innovation and entrepreneurship
Function of CED
Popularize the idea of entrepreneurship in Bangladesh and help build capabilities of our entrepreneurs.
Address the knowledge gap and skill shortcomings that prevent entrepreneurs (in various sectors) from growing their businesses and run them effectively.
Develop academic curricula and introduce courses targeting entrepreneurs and students, who wish to pursue an entrepreneurial path.
Engage and collaborate with local and international organizations and educational institutes for improving the entrepreneurial ventures of local and foreign entrepreneurs: running international exchange programs, industry specific seminars and acting as project implementers for international donors and agencies.
For details, please visit:
CED website
Latest News and Events
BRAC University signs MoU with EPB to develop Bangladesh’s export ecosystem
December 24th, 2025
Dubotech Digital Ltd wins National SME Entrepreneur Award 2025
December 23rd, 2025
CED hosts launch of ‘Becho’ to drive data-driven growth for CMSMEs