Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/about/people/noushin-laila-ansari
Page Title: Noushin Laila Ansari | BRAC University

Noushin Laila Ansari | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Noushin Laila Ansari
Senior Lecturer
BRAC Business School
noushin.ansari@bracu.ac.bd
Level: 5, Room: 5A30
Kha-224 Merul Badda
Dhaka 1212. Bangladesh
is an academic specializing in Management Information Systems. She holds two MBA degrees: one from the University of Dhaka and another from the Anderson School of Management at the University of New Mexico. She also earned her BBA from the University of Dhaka.
She has published on topics like mobile health services and green IT. Her accolades include the Dean’s Choice Award from the University of Dhaka and the International Amigo Scholarship from the University of New Mexico. Skilled in various analytical tools and programming languages, Noushin is also certified in ethical research and leadership. Her dedication to education and research continues to strive her to continuously learn more in her field of business studies.
Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.)
Anderson School of Management, University of New Mexico (Major in Management Information Systems)
Faculty of Business Studies, University of Dhaka (Major in Management Information Systems)
Bachelor of Business Administration (B.B.A.)
Higher Secondary Certificate (H.S.C.)
Holy Cross College, Dhaka
Secondary School Certificate (S.S.C.)
Holy Cross Girls’ High School, Dhaka
Conferences
Ansari, N. L.
, Ashraf, M., Malik, B. T., & Grunfeld, H. (2010). Green IT awareness and practices: Results from a field study on mobile phone related e-waste in Bangladesh.
International Symposium on Technology and Society, Proceedings
, 375–383.
https://doi.org/10.1109/ISTAS.2010.5514618
(2010). Stories from rural Bangladesh: presenting impact of the mobile phone based ‘health help line’ service in rural Bangladesh. In J. Svensson & G. Wicander (Eds.),
the Proceedings of 2nd International Conference on M4D 2010
. Karlstad University Press.
Ashraf, M. M.,
, Malik, B. T., & Rashid, B. (2010). Evaluating the impact of mobile phone based ‘health help line’ in rural Bangladesh” service in rural Bangladesh. In J. Svensson & G. Wicander (Eds.),
Proceedings of 2nd International Conference on M4D 2010
(pp. 15–30). Karlstad University Press.
• Systems Analysis and Design
• Management of Information Systems
• Computer Applications in Business
• E-Business
• Introduction to Computer Programming
• ‘Dean’s Choice Award’ and ‘Dean’s Honors Award’ from the Faculty of Business Studies, University of Dhaka
• ‘International Amigo Scholarship’-University of New Mexico
• ‘Sherburne P Anderson Memorial Scholarship’ from the Anderson School of Management, University of New Mexico.