Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/academics/policies-and-procedures/change-departmentprogram
Page Title: Change of Department/Program | BRAC University

Change of Department/Program | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
The student may transfer with the approval of the Deans or Heads of the student’s current and proposed departments. The student must meet any pre-requisite and departmental requirements for the transfer as per his/her advisor’s instructions. The student must pay the required transfer fee will be as determined from time to time by the university management. Students of Pharmacy and Law will not be allowed to transfer except with the special permission respectively of the Head of Pharmacy or the Dean of Law in consultation with the Registrar. Students beyond 60 credits will not be allowed to transfer except with special permission by the respective Heads of the Departments or Deans in consultation with the Registrar.
A student interested in transfer shall collect the Inter
Department Transfer Form
, available at Office of the Controller of Examination, information Desk, or at our webpage, attach copies of Grade Sheets of all semesters completed and  submit a list of courses s/he  wants to transfer on the reverse side of the form and follow the instruction below:
approval of the Chairperson of the accepting
dept., if the Chairperson of the accepting dept. agrees to accept him/her in the dept., s/he will mark the courses acceptable for transfer with signature.
approval of the Chairperson of the releasing
dept., if the Chairperson of the releasing Dept. agrees to release him/her from the dept., s/he will sign the application form.
Submit the duly
filled and signed application form
to the Registrar’s office.
After the transfer is accepted,
a) The grade sheet /transcript of the student will show grades all the courses taken by the student.
b) Grades of all required general education courses and of the required courses of the new major must be transferred.
c) After transfer CGPA will be computed  on the basis of courses transferred and taken thereafter.
d) For graduation, grades of all courses required for the program and the degree will be included to compute the CGPA.
Request for Information