Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/academics/institutes/brac-institute-languages/undergraduate-english-courses
Page Title: Undergraduate English Courses | BRAC University

Undergraduate English Courses | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
University Courses for undergraduate students
BIL offers, for the undergraduate students, a range of 6 modular courses that range over from Intermediate to Advanced Proficiency levels, and 2 specialized courses for advanced students only
ENG 091: Foundation Course in English (Non-credit)
This course is designed for the intermediate level students to improve all four language skills- listening, speaking, reading and writing. The course is divided into two parts, each dealing with one pair of skills- the speaking and listening is one pair and the reading and writing is the other. The students are introduced to strategies of each skill and are expected to use them in and beyond the course. They practice reading both fiction and non-fiction, writing in different genres, listening to tracks and presenting to audience.
The materials for the course are developed in line with the students’ present knowledge and the level they are expected to achieve. Besides, active participation of the students in the class proceedings is encouraged and enforced to create better effect of learning.
ENG 101: English Fundamentals (3 credits)
This course is designed for the students at an upper intermediate language proficiency level. To sharpen all four language skills, the strand is parted into two pairs of skills: the speaking and listening pair and the reading and writing pair.
This course exposes students to a variety of academic and professional use of language. It enhances students’ vocabulary range, grammatical practice, organizational capacity and analytical understanding. It focuses on writing academic papers, analyzing reading materials and grooming students’ listening and speaking skills, further emphasizing on strategies of the language skills.
The material of the course is designed in such a way that students can get the utmost benefit to improve themselves. This course, like all of the BIL courses, is learner-centered, and encourages and enforces active student participation.
ENG 102: English Composition (3 credits)
This course is designed for advanced level students and is therefore focused on developing their capacity of critical reading and academic writing skills. Once again divided in pairs of skills- speaking & listening and reading & writing- this is more professional and academic in design, and concentrates on academic writing, critical and analytical reading and formal presentation. The course is heavy founded on extracting and developing the students’ critical reading and critical thinking abilities.
Once again leaning on learner-centered and task-based teaching methodologies, the course materials are developed to expose students to more academic and professional readings. The students are definitely encouraged and enforced to actively participate in the classroom activities.
ENG 103: Advanced Writing Skills and Presentation (3 credits)
This course is designed for students who possess required proficiency in academic writing and consequently, aspire for achieving expertise in organized creative writing and critical research. The purpose of this course, therefore, is to elevate students’ reading, writing and analytical skills to a higher standard suitable for future university work and teach them the ways to incorporate original research into their writing. By expanding their thinking abilities from national and global perspectives, students get the chance to broaden their understanding of the nitty-gritty of social research skills and engage themselves in research activities.
Apart from dealing with a diverse genre of writing, each student is required to work on a specific global or cross cultural issue that has a national impact and develop that issue into a research work.
ENG 203: Communication Skills (for Architecture Students) (1.5 credits)
This specialization course is designed for Architecture students who have completed at least one modular English course. It covers: reading of architectural articles of various genres; writing of illustrations, comparative essays, project proposals, reports and interpretations; listening of academic discourses, speeches and lectures; and presentation of projects and reports. It aims to improve both oral and written communication skills of these students as is particular for the discipline.
BUS 201: Business and Human Communication (3 credits)
The primary objective of Business and Human Communication (BUS 201) is to introduce students to the various forms of written and verbal communication that are essential in real-life business or professional situations. This course mainly focuses on the contemporary aspects of business communication in the work-place in particular, and businesses in general, and covers business writings such as—business letters, memos, persuasive messages, reports, proposals etc. while teaching the appropriate tones, languages and styles related to these. The course also covers aspects of formal business presentations highlighting the language, the do-s and don’t-s and the appropriate usage of visuals and multimedia in presentations. Students also learn the format and languages needed to write effective résumés with cover letters as well as job interview techniques. Newspaper clips, videos and guest lecturers’ sharing their practical experiences are used to add value to the learning process during the course.