Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/news/brac-university-celebrates-excellence-research-quality-journal-publication-award-2024
Page Title: BRAC University Celebrates Excellence in Research with 'Quality Journal Publication Award 2024' | BRAC University

BRAC University Celebrates Excellence in Research with 'Quality Journal Publication Award 2024' | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
BRAC University Celebrates Excellence in Research with 'Quality Journal Publication Award 2024'
Publish Date:
February 28th, 2024
BRAC University has announced the recipients of its prestigious Quality Journal Publication Award 2024, recognizing the outstanding contributions of its faculty members in academic excellence and meaningful Research. The award ceremony was held on February 27th, 2024, at the climate-friendly university's new campus.
The ceremony was graced by the presence of the Honorable Minister Yeafesh Osman, Ministry of Science and Technology, People's Republic of Bangladesh, as the chief guest, alongside Professor Syed Mahfuzul Aziz, Acting Vice-Chancellor, BRAC University, and Professor Mohammad Mahboob Rahman, PhD, Treasurer, BRAC University, esteemed faculty members, and other distinguished guests.
The 'Quality Journal Publication Award 2024' underscores BRAC University's commitment to fostering a culture of innovation, Research, and social responsibility. Acknowledging the pivotal role of Research in achieving academic excellence and societal impact, BRAC University instituted this award to honor faculty members' exemplary contributions to high-impact publications. This year, 43 researchers were recognized, with 78 distinguished for publishing in journals ranked in the top 10% of Q1 journals in Scopus.
Architect Yeafesh Osman expressed his gratitude to the recipients and all contributors to the research endeavors of the university. He emphasized the importance of researchers consistently involving themselves in the pursuit of innovation. Pausing this engagement may lead to a loss of momentum. He further added that the thirst for knowledge has no boundaries, and it is necessary to stay consistently informed and updated. He mentioned that his ministry would actively support researchers at BRAC University where applicable.
During his welcome speech, Professor Syed Mahfuzul Aziz expressed BRAC University's commitment to using education and research to bring about positive change. Professor Aziz emphasized that research is at the core of the institution, and he took pride in the dedication and tireless efforts of the faculty members toward research and innovative solutions to social problems. The goal of BRAC University is to become a leading institution in the region and a globally recognized university in the global south, which is in line with the vision of its founder, Sir Fazle Hasan Abed.
Closing the event, Dr. AKM Abdul Malek Azad, Chair of the Research Metrics Committee and Professor of the Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering of BRAC University, commended the initiative to encourage quality research, emphasizing the university's dedication to promoting excellence in research endeavors.
BRAC University remains steadfast in its commitment to advancing knowledge, fostering innovation, and contributing to societal welfare through impactful research initiatives. The university also ranked No. 1 in research investment in Bangladesh and among the global top 5 universities in United Nation's Sustainable Development Goal 1 on poverty alleviation.