Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/news/professor-mahbubul-alam-majumdar-assistant-professor-shams-mansoor-ghani-named-ekushey-padak
Page Title: Professor Mahbubul Alam Majumdar, Assistant Professor Shams Mansoor Ghani named for Ekushey Padak 2026 | BRAC University

Professor Mahbubul Alam Majumdar, Assistant Professor Shams Mansoor Ghani named for Ekushey Padak 2026 | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Professor Mahbubul Alam Majumdar, Assistant Professor Shams Mansoor Ghani named for Ekushey Padak 2026
Publish Date:
February 9th, 2026
Two faculty members of BRAC University have been named for this year’s Ekushey Padak, the second highest civilian award in Bangladesh, in recognition of their outstanding contributions to their respective fields.
A February 5 post on the chief adviser’s official Facebook page stated that the Ministry of Cultural Affairs has announced honoring nine eminent personalities and one rock band with the award.
Introduced in memory of the 1952 Language Movement martyrs, Ekushey Padak is awarded to individuals celebrating their commitment to strengthening the nation’s language, culture, knowledge, and intellectual foundations.
Professor Mahbubul Alam Majumdar, dean of the School of Data and Sciences, was chosen in the education category for promoting mathematics among the youth and the Mathematics Olympiad.
He has played a transformative role in nurturing mathematical talent in Bangladesh, serving as a long-time coach and mentor of the national Mathematics Olympiad team.
His efforts led to Bangladesh achieving historic successes at the International Mathematical Olympiad, including becoming the only country outside India in South Asia to win a gold medal.
He recently received the 2026 Spirit of Abdus Salam Award for his “efforts to strengthen Bangladesh's scientific and educational foundations”.
The other faculty member is Shams Mansoor Ghani, assistant professor of the Department of Architecture at the School of Architecture and Design and keyboardist, songwriter and composer of Warfaze.
This is the first band to be chosen for the award for contributions to music and culture.
Associated with the band since 2000, Ghani is the founder of Shams Noizemine, an audio production center in Bangladesh that primarily specializes in recording acoustic instruments and vocals.
In addition, he offers training in synthesizer, piano, music theory, and music production and is currently experimenting on architectural acoustics and spaces for music.
This recognition advances BRAC University’s efforts towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 4 (Quality Education), 9 (Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure) and 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities).