Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/academics/institutional-quality-assurance-cell-iqac/workshop-seminar
Page Title: Workshop /Seminar | BRAC University

Workshop /Seminar | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
1. Teaching-Learning and Assessment
The Institutional Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) in collaboration with School of General Education at Brac University organized a 3-day Induction Workshop
on March 7-11
-Learning and Assessment.
Primarily intended for new faculty members who joined in recent time.
Professor Syed Mahfuzul Aziz, PhD
Acting Vice Chancellor and Pro-Vice Chancellor of BRAC University gave the opening speech welcoming the participants of the workshop.
Arshad M. Chowdhury,
PhD Dean & Professor, BSRM School of Engineering and also
IQAC; Samia Huq
, PhD, Dean School of General Education and
Fahmida Rahman
, Senior Lecturer and Program Coordinator of GenEd, deliver their valuable speech to the participants of the workshop. A teacher also delivered his speech over video conference from USA on Bloom’s Taxonomy.
They cover the topic Introduction to Outcome Based Education (OBE), Bloom’s Taxonomy Developing Course outline, Effective Assessment of/for learning outcomes Innovative and
Effective Teaching Techniques for Active Learning, Building Functional Relationship with students.
The workshop ended with a Q&A session with a few engaging questions from the audience.
2. Pursuing Academic Excellence through
Quality Assurance and Accreditation in Higher Education
The Institutional Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) of BRAC University arranged a workshop on
August 2022
titled “Pursuing academic excellence through quality assurance and accreditation in higher education” conducted by
Professor Dr. Sanjoy Kumar Adhikary
, Member (QA & NQF), Bangladesh Accreditation Council. The Dean of Schools, The Chairperson of Departments and the all-QA committee members attended the workshop.
Professor Vincent Chang,
President and Vice Chancellor of BRAC University gave the opening speech welcoming Dr
Sanjoy Kumar Adhikary
and participants of the workshop.
In the workshop,
Dr. Sanjoy Kumar Adhikary
, talked about Knowing Bangladesh National Qualifications Framework (BNQF) for Higher Education. BNQF describes the qualification of Bangladesh’s education system and how they are interlinked. It is method/tool that would be used for creating basis improving quality, recognition and accessibility of qualification nationally and internationally.
Request for Information