Source URL: https://www.bracu.ac.bd/about/people/jubairul-islam-shaown
Page Title: Jubairul Islam Shaown | BRAC University

Jubairul Islam Shaown | BRAC University
Skip to main content
I'm looking for:
Find your Program:
Jubairul Islam Shaown
Senior Lecturer (on leave)
BRAC Business School
j.shaown@bracu.ac.bd
joined BRAC Business School as a Lecturer in May 2017. He did his master’s in Human Resource Management and Industrial Relations from the University of Manchester. He received the best performer award in his program. He obtained his BBA degree from IBA, University of Dhaka. He is currently pursuing an advanced certification in Computer Information Systems (with specialization in Business Programming) in the San Francisco Bay Area.
in Human Resource Management and Industrial Relations
University of Manchester
Graduated with Distinction (Best Performer in the Program)
Bachelor of Business Administration
Institute of Business Administration, University of Dhaka
Major: Finance, Minor: Operation Management
Bashar, S. M., &
Shaown, J. I.
(2018). A comparative study between the profit rates of Islamic banks and the fixed lending rates of regular commercial banks in Bangladesh.
Journal of Business Administration
, & Sultana, Y. (2017). Islamic banking in Bangladesh : Challenges and prospects.
The AIUB Journal of Business and Economics (AJBE)
(1), 153–174. Retrieved from
https://ajbe.aiub.edu/Journal-Archive/ajbe-Volume-14-Issue-1
, Bhattacharjee, S., & Khan, A. T. M. J. (2017). Market competitiveness of the banking industry and the constituent banks of Bangladesh: A study on the banks listed in Dhaka stock exchange.
Journal of Business Administrations
Amin, M. I., &
(2017). Digital marketing landscape of Bangladesh.
Training on Strengthening Capacity and Knowledge on Environmental and Social Risk and Opportunity Management among Financial Institutions in Bangladesh
Organized by: FI Konsult [Czech Republic] and Sustainable Finance Advisory [United Kingdom]
Training on Financial Modeling
Organized by: Infrastructure Development Company Limited, Bangladesh
A. Security Analysis & Portfolio Management
B. Financial Management
C. Research Method for Business Students
D. Organizational Behavior
E. Human Resource Management
F. Introduction to Business
G. Visual Basic
Certified Supply Chain Analyst (CSCA)
International Supply Chain Education Alliance, Bangladesh
“Divisional Champion” of HSBC-Prothom Alo Bhasha Protijog 2006